Econometrica, Vol. 75, No. 3 (May, 2007), 711–756

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES OF REGIME CHANGE: LEARNING,
MULTIPLICITY, AND THE TIMING OF ATTACKS
BY GEORGE-MARIOS ANGELETOS, CHRISTIAN HELLWIG, AND
ALESSANDRO PAVAN1
Global games of regime change—coordination games of incomplete information in
which a status quo is abandoned once a sufficiently large fraction of agents attack it—
have been used to study crises phenomena such as currency attacks, bank runs, debt
crises, and political change. We extend the static benchmark examined in the literature
by allowing agents to take actions in many periods and to learn about the underlying
fundamentals over time. We first provide a simple recursive algorithm for the characterization of monotone equilibria. We then show how the interaction of the knowledge
that the regime survived past attacks with the arrival of information over time, or with
changes in fundamentals, leads to interesting equilibrium properties. First, multiplicity may obtain under the same conditions on exogenous information that guarantee
uniqueness in the static benchmark. Second, fundamentals may predict the eventual
fate of the regime but not the timing or the number of attacks. Finally, equilibrium dynamics can alternate between phases of tranquility—where no attack is possible—and
phases of distress—where a large attack can occur—even without changes in fundamentals.
KEYWORDS: Global games, coordination, multiple equilibria, information dynamics,
crises.

1. INTRODUCTION
GAMES OF REGIME CHANGE are coordination games in which a status quo is
abandoned, causing a discrete change in payoffs, once a sufficiently large number of agents take an action against it. These games have been used to model a
variety of crises phenomena: an attack against the status quo is interpreted as
speculation against a currency peg, as a run against a bank, or as a revolution
against a dictator.
Most applications of these games to crises have been confined to static
frameworks: they abstract from the possibility that agents take multiple shots
against the status quo and that their beliefs about their ability to induce regime
change vary over time.2 Yet, these two possibilities are important from both
1
Earlier versions of this paper were entitled “Information Dynamics and Equilibrium Multiplicity in Global Games of Regime Change.” We are grateful to a co-editor and three anonymous
referees for suggestions that helped us improve the paper. For useful comments, we also thank
Andy Atkeson, Daron Acemoglu, Pierpaolo Battigalli, Alberto Bisin, V. V. Chari, Lars Hansen,
Patrick Kehoe, Alessandro Lizzeri, Kiminori Matsuyama, Stephen Morris, Hyun Song Shin, Iván
Werning, and seminar participants at Berkeley, Bocconi, Bologna, British Columbia, Chicago,
MIT, Northwestern, NYU, Pompeu Fabra, Princeton, UCL, UCLA, UPenn, Yale, the Minneapolis FRB, the 2003 and 2004 SED meetings, the 2005 CEPR-ESSET, the 2005 IDEI conference in
tribute to J. J. Laffont, the 2005 NBER Summer Institute, the 2005 Cowles workshop on coordination games, and the 2005 World Congress of the Econometric Society.
2
This is particularly true for recent applications that introduce incomplete information. See
Morris and Shin (1998) for currency crises; Goldstein and Pauzner (2005) and Rochet and Vives

711

712

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

an applied and a theoretical perspective. First, crises are intrinsically dynamic
phenomena. In the context of currency crises, for example, speculators can
attack a currency again and again until they induce devaluation, and their expectations about the ability of the central bank to defend the currency in the
present may naturally depend on whether the bank has successfully defended
it in the past. Second, learning in a dynamic setting may critically affect the
level of strategic uncertainty (i.e., uncertainty about one another’s actions) and
thereby the dynamics of coordination and the determinacy of equilibria.
In this paper, we consider a dynamic global game that extends the static
benchmark used in the literature so as to incorporate precisely the two possibilities highlighted in the foregoing discussion.3 There is a large number of
agents and two possible regimes, the status quo and an alternative. The game
continues as long as the status quo is in place. In each period, each agent can
either attack the status quo (i.e., take an action that favors regime change) or
not attack. The net payoff from attacking is positive if the status quo is abandoned in that period and negative otherwise. Regime change, in turn, occurs
if and only if the fraction of agents who attack exceeds a critical value θ ∈ R
that parameterizes the strength of the status quo. The variable θ captures the
component of the payoff structure (the “fundamentals”) that is never common
knowledge; as time passes, agents receive more and more private information
about θ.
We first provide an algorithm for the characterization of monotone equilibria, based on a simple recursive structure. A difficulty with extending global
games to dynamic settings is the need to keep track of the evolution of the
cross-sectional distribution of beliefs. Our framework overcomes this difficulty
by summarizing the private information of an agent about θ at any given period in a one-dimensional sufficient statistic and by capturing the dynamics of
the cross-sectional distribution of this statistic in a parsimonious way. We then
apply this algorithm to examine the effects of learning on the determinacy of
equilibria and the dynamics of coordination.
Multiplicity
We find that multiple equilibria can exist in our dynamic game under the
same conditions on the precision of exogenous private and public information that would guarantee uniqueness in the static benchmark that is the backbone of most recent applications of global games (Morris and Shin (1998,
2001, 2003)). Multiplicity originates in the interaction between the endogenous learning induced by the knowledge that the regime survived past attacks
(2004) for bank runs; Morris and Shin (2004) and Corsetti, Guimaraes, and Roubini (2005) for
debt crises; Atkeson (2001) and Edmond (2005) for riots and political change.
3
Global games are incomplete-information games that often admit a unique, iteratively dominant equilibrium; see Carlsson and Van Damme (1993) and Morris and Shin (2003). The applications cited in footnote 2 are all based on static global games.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

713

and the exogenous learning induced by the arrival of new private information
over time.
Iterated deletion of dominated strategies ensures that equilibrium play is
uniquely determined in the first period: an attack necessarily takes place for
every θ, but succeeds in triggering regime change if and only if θ is sufficiently
low. In any subsequent period, the knowledge that the status quo is still in
place makes it common certainty that it is not too weak (i.e., that θ is high
enough) and ensures that no agent ever again finds it dominant to attack. As
a result, there always exists an equilibrium in which no attack occurs after the
first period. This would actually be the unique equilibrium of the game if agents
did not receive any information after the first period.
When instead new private information about θ arrives over time, this has
two effects on posterior beliefs about the strength of the status quo and hence
on the agents’ incentives to attack. On the one hand, it dilutes the upward
shift in posterior beliefs induced by the knowledge that the regime survived
the first-period attack, which contributes to making further attacks possible.
On the other hand, it reduces the dependence of posterior beliefs on the common prior, which in general has an ambiguous effect. When the prior mean is
high (i.e., favorable to the status quo), discounting the prior also contributes
to making a new attack possible; the opposite is true when the prior mean is
low. A high prior mean thus ensures the existence of an equilibrium where a
second attack occurs once private information becomes sufficiently precise.
More generally, we show that when the prior mean is sufficiently high, the
arrival of private information over time suffices for the existence of arbitrarily
many equilibria, which differ in both the number and the timing of attacks.
Dynamics of Coordination
The aforementioned multiplicity result does not mean that “anything goes”:
equilibrium outcomes in any given period depend critically on available information and the history of past play.
The learning induced by the knowledge that the status quo survived past attacks introduces a form of strategic substitutability across periods: the more aggressive the agents’ strategy in one period, the higher the threshold in θ below
which regime change occurs in that period, but then the larger is the upward
shift in posterior beliefs induced by the knowledge that the regime survived this
attack and, hence, the lower is the incentive to attack in subsequent periods.
When an aggressive attack takes place in one period but fails to trigger regime
change, then a significant increase in the precision of private information is
necessary to offset the endogenous upward shift in posterior beliefs and make
a new attack possible in equilibrium. As a result, dynamics take the form of sequences of periods in which attacks cannot occur and agents only accumulate
information, followed by periods in which an attack is possible but does not
materialize, eventually resulting in a new attack.

714

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

Moreover, although it is possible that attacks continue indefinitely as long
as new information arrives over time, strategic uncertainty significantly limits
the size of attacks. There exists a region of θ in which the status quo survives
in all equilibria of the incomplete-information game, but in which it would
have collapsed in certain equilibria of the complete-information version of the
game.
Implications for Crises
These results translate to novel predictions for the dynamics of crises.
First, fundamentals may determine eventual outcomes—e.g., whether a currency is devalued—but not the timing and number of attacks.
Second, an economy can transit from phases of “tranquility,” where the
unique possible outcome is no attack, to phases of “distress,” where a significant change in outcomes can be triggered by a shift in “market sentiments.”
Finally, the transition from one phase to another can be caused by a small
change in information or, in a later extension, by a small change in fundamentals.
These predictions strike a delicate balance between two alternative views
of crises. The first associates crises with multiple self-fulfilling equilibria: large
and abrupt changes in outcomes are attributed to shifts in “market sentiments”
or “animal spirits” (Obstfeld (1996)). The second associates crises with a discontinuity, or strong nonlinearity, in the dependence of the unique equilibrium
to exogenous variables: large and abrupt changes in outcomes are attributed
to small changes in fundamentals or in agents’ information (Morris and Shin
(1998, 2001)). Our results combine a refined role for multiple self-fulfilling expectations with a certain discontinuity in equilibrium outcomes with respect to
information and fundamentals.
Extensions
The benchmark model focuses on the arrival of private information as the
only exogenous source of change in beliefs. In an extension we show how the
analysis can accommodate public news about the underlying fundamentals.
This only reinforces the multiplicity result. Moreover, equilibrium dynamics
continue to be characterized by phases of tranquility and phases of distress,
but now the transition from one phase to another can be triggered by public
news.
The benchmark model also deliberately assumes away the possibility that
the critical size of attack that triggers regime change may vary over time. This
permits us to isolate the effect of changes in information (beliefs), as opposed
to changes in fundamentals (payoffs), on the dynamics of coordination. Nevertheless, introducing shocks to fundamentals is important for applications, as
well as for understanding the robustness of our results.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

715

We first examine the case in which the shocks are perfectly observable.
Shocks then provide an additional driving force for dynamics: a transition from
tranquility to distress may now be triggered by a deterioration in fundamentals.
Moreover, a sufficiently bad shock can push the economy into a phase where
an attack becomes inevitable—a possibility absent in the benchmark model.
We next consider the case in which the shocks are unobservable (or observed
with private noise). The novel effect is that the uncertainty about the shocks
“noises up” the learning induced by the knowledge that the regime survived
past attacks: whereas in the benchmark model this knowledge leads to a truncation in the support of posterior beliefs about the strength of the status quo,
here posterior beliefs retain full support over the entire real line. Thus, in contrast to the benchmark model, agents with very low signals may now find it
dominant to attack in every period and, other things equal, a unique equilibrium outcome may obtain in any given period when private information in that
period is sufficiently precise. Nevertheless, our results are robust as long as
the noise in learning is small: any equilibrium of the benchmark model is approximated arbitrarily well by an equilibrium of the game with shocks as the
volatility of the shocks vanishes.
Thus, what sustains the multiplicity of equilibria and the structure of dynamics identified in this paper is the combination of exogenous changes in information or fundamentals with the endogenous learning induced by the knowledge
that the regime survived past attacks. The fact that, in the benchmark model,
this learning takes the sharp form of a truncation in the support of beliefs simplifies the analysis but is not essential for the results. What is essential is that
this learning implies a significant change in common beliefs about the strength
of the status quo.
Related Literature
This paper contributes to the literature on global games by highlighting the
importance of learning from past outcomes for equilibrium determinacy. In
this respect, it shares with Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2006)—who consider the signaling effects of policy interventions in a static environment—the
idea that natural sources of endogenous information may qualify the applicability of global-game uniqueness results, while at the same time reinforcing
the more general point that information is important for coordination. In our
framework this leads to novel predictions that would not have been possible
with either common knowledge or a unique equilibrium.4
The paper also contributes to a small but growing literature on dynamic
global games. Morris and Shin (1999) consider a dynamic model whose stage
4
Information is endogenized also in Angeletos and Werning (2006), Hellwig, Mukherji, and
Tsyvinski (2006), and Tarashev (2005), where financial prices aggregate and publicize disperse
private information, and in Edmond (2005), where a dictator manipulates the distribution of
private signals.

716

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

game is similar to ours, but where the strength of the status quo follows a random walk and is commonly observed at the end of each period. This reduces
the analysis to a sequence of essentially unrelated static games, each with a
unique equilibrium. Chamley (1999) also considers a global game in which
fundamentals change over time and where aggregate activity is perfectly observable but where the latter is informative in equilibrium only when the fundamentals enter the dominance regions. Heidhues and Melissas (2006) and
Giannitsarou and Toxvaerd (2003) establish uniqueness results for dynamic
global games on the basis of dynamic strategic complementarities. Dasgupta
(2006) examins the role of noisy social learning in a two-period investment
model with irreversible actions. Levin (2001) considers a global game with
overlapping generations of players. Goldstein and Pauzner (2004) and Goldstein (2005) consider models of contagion. Frankel and Pauzner (2000) examin a dynamic coordination game where uniqueness is obtained by combining
aggregate shocks with idiosyncratic inertia. Abreu and Brunnermeier (2003)
consider a setting in which speculators become gradually and asymmetrically
aware of the mispricing of a financial asset. All these papers feature multiperiod coordination problems, but none of them features the form of learning
that is the center of our analysis.5 Our methodological approach is also quite
different: instead of forcing uniqueness, we wish to understand how a natural
form of learning sustained by repeated play may affect both the determinacy
of equilibria and the structure of dynamics.
Finally, this paper shares with Chari and Kehoe (2003) the motivation that
information is important for understanding crises: our benchmark model offers a theory where changes in information are the sole source for the dynamics of crises. However, there are two important differences. First, Chari
and Kehoe focus on the effect of herding in an environment without strategic complementarities. In contrast, we focus on the effect of learning on the
dynamics of coordination. The coordination element is crucial for the prediction that there is a phase of distress during which an attack is possible but
does not necessarily take place, as well as for the prediction that attacks occur
as sudden and synchronized events. Second, the main learning effect in Chari
and Kehoe is the negative information about the fundamentals revealed by the
choice by some agents to attack—a form of learning that generates “build-up”
or “snowballing” effects. In contrast, the main learning effect in our benchmark model is the positive information revealed by the failure of an attack
to trigger regime change—a form of learning that is crucial for our prediction that phases of distress are eventually followed by phases of tranquility. In
Section 5.2 we discuss an extension of our benchmark model in which agents
observe noisy signals about the size of past attacks. This extension combines
our cycles between phases of distress and tranquility with snowballing effects
similar to those stressed in the herding literature.
5
Chamley (2003) also considers learning in a dynamic coordination game. However, his model
is not a global game; all information is public and so is learning.

717

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

Layout
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the static
benchmark and introduces the dynamic model. Section 3 characterizes the set
of monotone equilibria. Section 4 establishes the multiplicity result and examines the properties of equilibrium dynamics. Section 5 considers a few extensions of the benchmark model and examines robustness. Section 6 concludes.
Proofs omitted in the main text are provided in the Appendix.
2. A SIMPLE GAME OF REGIME CHANGE
2.1. Static Benchmark
Model setup
There is a continuum of agents of measure 1, indexed by i and uniformly
distributed over [0 1]. Agents move simultaneously, choosing between two
actions: they can either attack the status quo (i.e., take an action that favors
regime change) or refrain from attacking.
The payoff structure is illustrated in Table I. The payoff from not attacking (ai = 0) is zero, whereas the payoff from attacking (ai = 1) is 1 − c > 0
if the status quo is abandoned (R = 1) and −c < 0 otherwise (R = 0), where
c ∈ (0 1) parameterizes the relative cost of attacking. An agent hence finds it
optimal to attack if and only if he expects regime change with probability at
least equal to c. The status quo, in turn, is abandoned if and only if the measure of agents attacking, which we denote by A, is no less than a critical value
θ ∈ R, which parameterizes the strength of the status quo. An agent’s incentive
to attack thus increases with the aggregate size of attack, implying that agents’
actions are strategic complements.
The role of coordination is most evident when θ is commonly known by all
agents: for θ ∈ (0 1], there exist two pure-strategy equilibria, one in which all
agents attack and the status quo is abandoned (A = 1 ≥ θ), and another in
which no agent attacks and the status quo is maintained (A = 0 < θ).
However, here we are interested in cases in which agents have heterogeneous information about the strength of the status quo. Nature first draws
θ from a normal distribution N (z 1/α), which defines the initial common
prior about θ. Each agent then receives a private signal xi = θ + ξi , where
TABLE I
PAYOFFS

Attack (ai = 1)
Not attack (ai = 0)

Regime Change (A ≥ θ)

Status Quo (A < θ)

1−c
0

−c
0

718

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

ξi ∼ N (0 1/β) is noise, independent and identically distributed across agents
and independent of θ. The Normality assumptions allow us to parameterize
the information structure parsimoniously with (β α z), that is, the precision
of private information, the precision of the common prior, and the mean of the
common prior.
Interpretation
Although the model is highly stylized, it admits a variety of interpretations
and possible applications. The most celebrated examples are self-fulfilling bank
runs, currency attacks, and debt crises. In these contexts, regime change occurs, respectively, when a large run forces the banking system to suspend its
payments, when a large speculative attack forces the central bank to abandon
the peg, and when a country/company fails to coordinate its creditors to roll
over its debt and is hence forced into bankruptcy. The model can also be interpreted as one of political change, in which a large number of citizens decide
whether or not to take actions to subvert a repressive dictator or some other
political establishment. (For references, see footnote 2.)
Equilibrium analysis
Note that the cumulative distribution function of an agent’s posterior
about θ is decreasing in his private signal x. Moreover, it is strictly dominant to attack for sufficiently low signals (namely for x < x, where x solves
Pr(θ ≤ 0|x) = c) and not to attack for sufficient high signals (namely for x > x̄,
where x̄ solves Pr(θ ≤ 1|x̄) = c). It is thus natural to look at monotone Bayesian
Nash equilibria in which the agents’ strategy is nonincreasing in x.
Indeed, suppose there is a threshold x̂ ∈ R such that each agent attacks if
and only if x ≤ x̂. The measure of agents who attack is then decreasing in θ
and is given by

A(θ) = Pr(x ≤ x̂|θ) = ( β(x̂ − θ))
where  is the cumulative distribution function of the standard Normal. It
follows that the status quo is abandoned if and only if θ ≤ θ̂, where θ̂ solves
θ̂ = A(θ̂), or equivalently

θ̂ = ( β(x̂ − θ̂))
(1)
By standard Gaussian updating, the posterior about θ conditional on the priβ
α
x + β+α
z and precision β + α. It follows
vate signal x is Normal with mean β+α
that the posterior probability of regime change is simply
Pr(R = 1|x) = Pr(θ ≤ θ̂|x)



β+α
=1−

α
β
x+
z − θ̂
β+α
β+α




DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

719

Because the latter is decreasing in x, an agent finds it optimal to attack if and
only if x ≤ x̂, where x̂ solves Pr(θ ≤ θ̂|x̂) = c, or equivalently




β
α
(2)
z − θ̂
= c
β+α
1−
x̂ +
β+α
β+α
A monotone equilibrium is thus identified by a joint solution (x̂ θ̂) to
(1) and (2). Such a solution always exists and is unique for all z if and only
if β ≥ α2 /(2π). Moreover, iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies
implies that when the monotone equilibrium is unique, there is no other equilibrium.
PROPOSITION 1: In the static game, the equilibrium is unique if and only if
β ≥ α2 /(2π) and is in monotone strategies.
In the limit as β → ∞ for given α, the threshold θ̂ converges to θ∞ ≡ 1 − c,
and the size of attack A(θ) converges to 1 for all θ < θ∞ and to 0 for all θ > θ∞ .
Hence, when the noise in private information is small and θ is in the neighborhood of θ∞ , a small variation in θ can trigger a large variation in the size of
attack and in the regime outcome. This kind of discontinuity, or strong nonlinearity, in the response of equilibrium outcomes to exogenous variables underlies the view of crises advocated by most global-game applications.6
2.2. Dynamic Game
We modify the foregoing static game in two ways: first, we allow agents to
attack the status quo repeatedly; second, we let agents accumulate information
over time.
Time is discrete and is indexed by t ∈ {1 2   }. The game continues as long
as the status quo is in place and is over once the status quo is abandoned. We
denote by Rt = 0 the event that the status quo is in place at the beginning of
period t, by Rt = 1 the alternative event, by ait ∈ {0 1} the action of agent i,
and by At ∈ [0 1] the measure of agents attacking at date t. Conditional on
the regime being in place at the beginning of period t (Rt = 0), the regime
is abandoned in that period (Rt+1 = 1) if and only if At ≥ θ, where θ again
represents the strength of the status quo. Agent i’s flow payoff for period t
(conditional on Rt =
is thus πit = ait (Rt+1 − c), while his payoff from the
0)
∞
entire game is Πi = t=1 ρt−1 (1−Rt )πit , where ρ ∈ (0 1) is the discount factor.
6

A related strong nonlinearity emerges in the response of equilibrium outcomes to noise in
public information; see the discussion of the “publicity multiplier” in Morris and Shin (2003) and
that of “nonfundamental volatility” in Angeletos and Werning (2006).

720

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

As in the static model, θ is drawn at the beginning of the game from
N (z 1/α), which defines the initial common prior, and never becomes common knowledge. Private information, however, evolves over time. In each period t ≥ 1, every agent i receives a private signal x̃it = θ + ξit about θ, where
ξit ∼ N (0 1/ηt ) is independent and identically distributed across i, independent of θ, and serially uncorrelated. Let x̃ti = {x̃iτ }tτ=1 denote agent i’s history
of private signals up to period t. Individual actions and the size of past attacks
are not observable; hence the public history in period t simply consists of the
information that the regime is still in place, whereas the private history of an
agent is 
the sequence of own private signals and own past actions. Finally, we
t
let βt ≡ τ=1 ητ and assume that
∞ > βt ≥ α2 /(2π) ∀t

and

lim βt = ∞

t→∞

As shown in the next section, βt parameterizes the precision of private information accumulated up to period t. The assumptions we make here for βt
ensure (i) that the static game defined by the restriction that agents can move
only in period t has a unique equilibrium for every t and (ii) that private information becomes infinitely precise only in the limit.
REMARK: Although this dynamic game is highly stylized, it captures two important dimensions that are absent in the static benchmark: first, the possibility
of multiple attacks against the status quo; second, the evolution of beliefs about
the strength of the status quo. By assuming that per-period payoffs do not depend on past or future actions and by ignoring specific institutional details,
the model may of course fail to capture other interesting effects introduced by
dynamics, such as, for example, the role of wealth accumulation or liquidity in
currency crises. However, abstracting from these other dimensions allows us to
isolate information as the driving force for the dynamics of coordination and
crises.
Equilibrium
In what follows, we limit attention to monotone equilibria, that is, symmetric
perfect Bayesian equilibria in which the probability an agent attacks in period t,
which we denote by at (x̃t ), is nonincreasing in his private signals x̃t and independent of his own past actions. Restricting attention to this class of equilibria
suffices to establish our results.
3. EQUILIBRIUM CHARACTERIZATION
Let at : R → [0 1] denote the strategy for period t and let at = {aτ }tτ=1 denote the strategy up to period t, with a∞ = {aτ }∞
τ=1 denoting the complete
t

721

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

strategy for the dynamic game. Because x̃t is independent and identically distributed across agents conditional on θ, for any given strategy a∞ the size of
attack and the regime outcome in period t depend only on θ. Thus let pt (θ; at )
denote the probability that the status quo is abandoned in period t when all
agents follow the strategy at , conditional on the status quo being in place at
the beginning of period t and the fundamentals being θ. Finally, let Ψ1 (θ|x̃1 )
denote the cumulative distribution function of the posterior beliefs in period 1,
while for any t ≥ 2, let Ψt (θ|x̃t ; at−1 ) denote the cumulative distribution function of the posterior beliefs in period t conditional on the knowledge that the
status quo is still in place (i.e., Rt = 0) and that agents have played in past
periods according to at−1 .
Because neither individual nor aggregate actions are observable and because
Rt = 0 is always compatible with any strategy profile at any t, no agent can detect out-of-equilibrium play as long as the status quo is in place.7 It follows
that beliefs are pinned down by Bayes’ rule in any relevant history of the game.
Furthermore, as long as the status quo is in place, payoffs in one period do not
depend on own or other players’ actions in any other period and, hence, strategies are sequentially rational if and only if the action prescribed for any given
period maximizes the payoff for that period. We conclude that the strategy a∞
is part of an equilibrium if and only if the following hold: at t = 1, for all x̃1 ,


a1 (x̃1 ) ∈ arg max
(3)
p1 (θ; a1 ) dΨ1 (θ|x̃1 ) − c a ;
a∈[01]

at any t ≥ 2, for all x̃t ,

(4)

at (x̃ ) ∈ arg max
t

a∈[01]

pt (θ; at ) dΨt (θ|x̃ ; a
t

t−1


)−c a 

Next, define xt and βt recursively by
xt =

βt−1
ηt
xt−1 + x̃t
βt
βt

and

βt = βt−1 + ηt 

with x1 = x̃1 and β1 = η1 . By standard Gaussian updating, the distribution of θ
βt
α
xt + α+β
z and precision
conditional on x̃t = {x̃τ }tτ=1 is Normal with mean α+β
t
t
t
βt + α. It follows that xt is a sufficient statistic for x̃ with respect to θ and,
hence, with respect to the event of regime change as well. As we show subsequently (and further discuss in Section 5.5), this ability to summarize private information into a one-dimensional sufficient statistic greatly simplifies
the analysis.
7
Indeed, the regime always survives any attack for θ > 1 and no realization of the private signal
rules out θ > 1.

722

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

Clearly, condition (3) implies that in any equilibrium of the dynamic game,
agents play in the first period exactly as in the static game in which they can
attack only at t = 1. Hence, by Proposition 1, equilibrium play is uniquely determined in the first period and is characterized in terms of thresholds for
x1 and θ. The following lemma shows that a similar property holds for subsequent periods.8
LEMMA 1: Any monotone equilibrium is characterized by a sequence
∗
∗
∗
∗
{x∗t  θt∗ }∞
t=1 , with xt ∈ R ∪ {−∞}, θt ∈ (0 1), and θt ≥ θt−1 for all t ≥ 2, such
that:
(i) at any t ≥ 1, an agent attacks if xt < x∗t and does not attacks if xt > x∗t ;
∗
(ii) the status quo is in place in period t ≥ 2 if and only if θ > θt−1
.
PROOF: We prove the claim by induction. For t = 1, the result follows from
Proposition 1. Consider next any t ≥ 2 and suppose that the result holds for
any τ ≤ t − 1. Because at is nonincreasing in x̃t , the size of attack At (θ) is
nonincreasing in θ, implying that either At (θ) < θ (and therefore Rt+1 = 0)
∗
∗
∗
for all θ > θt−1
, in which case θt∗ = θt−1
, or there exists θt∗ > θt−1
such that
∗
At (θ) < θ if and only if θ > θt . In the former case, the posterior probability of
regime change is 0 for all xt and hence x∗t = −∞. In the latter, the posterior
probability of regime change is given by

∗
(5)
)
pt (θ; at ) dΨt (θ|x̃t ; at−1 ) = Pr(θ ≤ θt∗ |xt  θ > θt−1
=1−




√
√

+αz
βt + α[ βtβxtt+α
− θt∗ ]

+αz
∗
βt + α[ βtβxtt+α
− θt−1
]



Because this is continuous and strictly decreasing in xt , and converges to 1
as xt → −∞ and to 0 as xt → +∞, there exists x∗t ∈ R such that Pr(θ ≤ θt∗ |
∗
∗
xt  θ > θt−1
) = c for xt = x∗t , Pr(θ ≤ θt∗ |xt  θ > θt−1
) > c for xt < x∗t , and Pr(θ ≤
∗
∗
∗
θt |xt  θ > θt−1 ) < c for xt > xt . In either case, At (θ) < 1 for all θ and hence
θt∗ < 1, which together with θt∗ ≥ θ1∗ > 0 implies that θt∗ ∈ (0 1) for all t, which
completes the proof.
Q.E.D.
Clearly, given that the status quo cannot be in place in one period without
also being in place in the previous, the sequence {θt∗ } is nondecreasing. On the
other hand, the sequence {x∗t } is nonmonotonic in general: periods where some
agents attack (x∗t > −∞) may alternate with periods where nobody attacks
(x∗t = −∞).
8
To simplify the notation, we allow for x∗t = −∞ and x∗t = +∞, with which we denote the case
where an agent attacks for, respectively, none and every realization of his private information.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

723

As mentioned previously, the first period in our dynamic game is similar to
the static game, but any subsequent period is very different. In any t ≥ 2, the
∗
.9
fact that the status quo is still in place makes it common certainty that θ > θt−1
∗
∗
Because θt−1 ≥ θ1 > 0, there always exist equilibria in which nobody attacks in
∗
). In particular, there exists
period t ≥ 2 (in which case x∗t = −∞ and θt∗ = θt−1
an equilibrium in which an attack takes place in period one and never thereafter. When this is the unique equilibrium, the possibility to take repeated actions against the regime adds nothing to the static analysis and the equilibrium
outcome in the dynamic game coincides with that in the static benchmark. In
what follows we thus examine under what conditions there also exist equilibria
with further attacks.
Lemma 1 rules out x∗t = +∞ (situations where everybody attacks). This follows directly from the fact that the status quo always survives for θ > 1 and
hence it is dominant not to attack for xt sufficiently high. We thus look for
equilibria in which x∗t ∈ R.
√
The size of attack is then given by At (θ) = Pr(xt ≤ x∗t |θ) = ( βt (x∗t − θt )),
which is continuous and strictly decreasing in θ, while the probability of regime
change for an agent with statistic xt is given by (5), which is continuous and
∗
. It follows that, in any equilibrium in which
strictly decreasing in xt if θt∗ > θt−1
∗
an attack occurs in period t, θt and x∗t solve
θt∗ = At (θt∗ ) and

∗
Pr(θ ≤ θt∗ |x∗t  θ > θt−1
) = c

or equivalently
(6)
(7)


θt∗ = ( βt (x∗t − θt∗ ))
√
t
 βt + α( βtβ+α
x∗t + βtα+α z − θt∗ )
= c
1− √
∗
t
 βt + α( βtβ+α
x∗t + βtα+α z − θt−1
)

Conditions (6) and (7) are the analogues in the dynamic game of conditions
(1) and (2) in the static game: (6) states that the equilibrium size of an attack
is equal to the critical size that triggers regime change if and only if the fundamentals are θt∗ , while (7) states that an agent is indifferent between attacking
and not attacking if and only if his private information is x∗t .
An alternative representation of the equilibrium conditions is also useful.
Define the functions u : R × [0 1] × R × R2+ × R → [−c 1 − c], X : [0 1] × R+ →
9

Clearly, the knowledge that the regime is in place in period t is a form of public information. However, this is very different from the type of information conveyed by additive public
signals of θ (Morris and Shin (2001, 2003), Hellwig (2002)). First, the information here is endogenous, for it depends on the particular equilibrium being played; second, it leads to a first-order
stochastic-dominance shift in beliefs. We introduce additive public signals about θ in Section 5.1.

724

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

R, and U : [0 1] × R × R2+ × R → [−c 1 − c] as follows10 :
∗
 β α z)
u(x θ∗  θ−1

√
β
α
 β + α( β+α
x + β+α
z − θ∗ )


∗
1− √
− c if θ∗ > θ−1
,
β
α
∗
≡

β
+
α(
x
+
z
−
θ
)
−1
β+α
β+α


∗
,
−c
if θ∗ ≤ θ−1

1
X(θ∗  β) ≡ θ∗ + √ −1 (θ∗ )
β

∗
lim u(x θ∗  θ−1
 β α z)
if θ∗ = 0,

 x→−∞
∗
∗
 β α z) if θ∗ ∈ (0 1),
U(θ∗  θ−1
 β α z) ≡ u(X(θ∗  β) θ∗  θ−1

 lim u(x θ∗  θ∗  β α z)
if θ∗ = 1.
−1
x→+∞

∗
 βt  α z) is the net
These functions have a simple interpretation: u(xt  θ∗  θ−1
payoff from attacking in period t for an agent with statistic xt when it is known
∗
and that regime change will occur if and only if θ ≤ θ∗ ; X(θ∗  βt )
that θ > θ−1
is the threshold x∗ such that, if agents attack in period t if and only if xt ≤ x∗ ,
∗
 βt  α z) is the net payoff from
then At (θ) ≥ θ if and only if θ ≤ θ∗ ; U(θ∗  θ−1
attacking for the “marginal agent” with signal x∗ = X(θ∗  βt ) when it is known
∗
.
that θ > θ−1
Solving (6) for x∗t gives x∗t = X(θt∗  βt ). Substituting the latter into (7) gives

(8)

∗
U(θt∗  θt−1
 βt  α z) = 0

Condition (8) is central to the characterization results hereafter; it represents the indifference condition for the marginal agent in period t for t ≥ 2.
As for t = 1, because the regime has never been challenged in the past,
the corresponding indifference condition is U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α z) = 0. Clearly,
U(θ −∞ β α z) coincides with the payoff of the marginal agent in the static
benchmark.
We can thus characterize the set of monotone equilibria as follows.
PROPOSITION 2: The strategy {at (·)}∞
t=1 is a monotone equilibrium if and only
if there exists a sequence of thresholds {x∗t  θt∗ }∞
t=1 such that:
(i) for all t, at (x̃t ) = 1 if xt < x∗t and at (x̃t ) = 0 if xt > x∗t ;
(ii) for t = 1, θ1∗ solves U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α z) = 0 and x∗1 = X(θ1∗  β1 );
∗
∗
> 0 and x∗t = −∞, or θt∗ > θt−1
is a solution
(iii) for any t ≥ 2, either θt∗ = θt−1
∗
∗
∗
∗
to U(θt  θt−1  βt  α z) = 0 and xt = X(θt  βt ).
A monotone equilibrium always exists.
10
With a slight abuse of notation, we let (+∞) = 1, (−∞) = 0, −1 (1) = +∞, and
−1 (0) = −∞.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

725

Proposition 2 provides an algorithm for constructing the entire set of
monotone equilibria: Start with t = 1 and let θ1∗ be the unique solution to
U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α z) = 0. Next, proceed to t = 2. If the equation U(θ2∗  θ1∗  β2 
α z) = 0 admits no solution set θ2∗ = θ1∗ ; if it admits a solution, either let θ2∗
be such a solution or simply set θ2∗ = θ1∗ . Repeat for all t ≥ 3 the same step as
for t = 2. The set of sequences {θt∗ }∞
t=1 constructed this way, together with the
associated sequences {x∗t }∞
t=1 , gives the set of monotone equilibria.
This recursive algorithm is based on the property that equilibrium learning
takes the simple form of a truncation in the support of beliefs about θ: The
knowledge that the regime has survived past attacks translates into the knowl∗
edge that θ is above a threshold θt−1
. In Section 5 we examine how this property
may or may not extend to richer environments. Note also that the foregoing
characterization is independent of whether the horizon is finite or infinite: it is
clearly valid even if the game ends exogenously at an arbitrary period T < ∞.
Existence of at least one monotone equilibrium follows from the fact that the
equation U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α z) = 0 always admits a solution and θt∗ = θ1∗ for all t
is an equilibrium. To understand whether there are other monotone equilibria,
the next lemma investigates the properties of the U function and the existence
of solutions to equation (8).
∗
 β α z) is continuous in all its arguLEMMA 2: (i) The function U(θ∗  θ−1
∗
∗
∗
and
ments, nonmonotonic in θ when θ−1 ∈ (0 1), and strictly decreasing in θ−1
∗
∗
∗
∗
∗
∗
∗
z for θ−1 < θ . Furthermore, for all θ−1 < 1 and θ > θ−1 , limβ→∞ U(θ  θ−1
 β
α z) = θ∞ − θ∗ , where θ∞ ≡ 1 − c.
(ii) Let θ̂t be the unique solution to U(θ̂t  −∞ βt  α z) = 0. A solution to (8)
∗
< θ̂t and is necessarily bounded from above by θ̂t .
exists only if θt−1
∗
(iii) If θt−1 > θ∞ , a solution to (8) does not exist for βt sufficiently high.
∗
(iv) If θt−1
< θ∞ , a solution to (8) necessarily exists for βt sufficiently high.
∗
is the highest solution to (8) for period t − 1, there exists β > βt−1
(v) If θt−1
such that (8) admits no solution for any period τ ≥ t such that βτ < β.
∗
To understand why the function U(θ∗  θ−1
 ·) is nonmonotonic in θ∗ when∗
ever θ−1 ∈ (0 1), recall that the higher is θ∗ , the higher is the threshold
x∗ = X(θ∗  βt ) such that if agents attack in period t if and only if xt ≤ x∗ ,
∗
, the threshold x∗ is so
then At (θ) ≥ θ if and only if θ ≤ θ∗ . When θ∗ < θ−1
∗
low that the size of attack is smaller than θ for all θ > θ−1
. The marginal
agent then attaches zero probability to regime change, which explains why
∗
∗
∗
 ·) = −c for θ∗ < θ−1
. When instead θ∗ > θ−1
, the threshold x∗ is
U(θ∗  θ−1
∗
. The
high enough that regime change occurs for a positive measure of θ > θ−1
marginal agent then attaches positive probability to regime change, which ex∗
∗
 ·) > −c for θ∗ > θ−1
. Finally, when θ∗ → 1, x∗ → ∞ and
plains why U(θ∗  θ−1
hence the probability that the marginal agent attaches to the event that θ > 1
converges to 1. The probability he attaches to regime change then converges
∗
 ·) → −c as θ∗ → 1.
to zero, which explains why U(θ∗  θ−1

726

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

FIGURE 1.—The payoff of the marginal agent.
∗
We thus have that U is flat at −c for θ∗ < θ−1
, then increases with θ∗ , and
∗
eventually decreases with θ , and converges again to −c as θ∗ → 1. This is
illustrated by the solid curve in Figure 1. Any intersection of this curve with
the horizontal axis corresponds to a solution to (8).11 The dashed line instead
represents the payoff of the marginal agent in the static game in which agents
can attack only in period t; when βt is sufficiently high, this is monotonic in θ∗ .
While the monotonicity of the payoff of the marginal agent in the static game
ensures uniqueness, the nonmonotonicity in the dynamic game leaves open the
possibility for multiple equilibria.
Next, to understand why U decreases with z, note that an increase in the
prior mean implies a first-order stochastic-dominance change in posterior beliefs about θ: the higher is z, the lower is the probability of regime change
for any given monotone strategy and, hence, the lower is the net payoff from
attacking for the marginal agent.
∗
also corresponds to an upward
Similarly, because an increase in θ−1
∗
. This implies
shift in posterior beliefs about θ, U also decreases with θ−1
that, at any t ≥ 2, the payoff of the marginal agent is always lower than
U(θ∗  −∞ βt  α z), that is, lower than the payoff in the static game where
the precision of private information is βt . This in turn explains why the static-

∗
∗
It can be shown that U(θ∗  θ−1
 ·) is single-peaked in θ∗ when θ−1
≥ 1/2. Numerical simu∗
lations suggest that this is true even when θ−1 < 1/2, although we have not been able to prove
it. Single-peakedness of U implies that (8) admits at most two solutions (generically none or
two). When there are two solutions, as in the case of the solid line in Figure 1, the lowest one
corresponds to an unstable equilibrium, while the highest one corresponds to a stable equilibrium. None of these properties, however, is needed for our results. All that matters is that U is
∗
nonmonotonic in θ∗ when θ−1
∈ (0 1), with a finite number of stationary points.
11

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

727

game threshold θ̂t (which corresponds to the intersection of the dashed line
with the horizontal axis in Figure 1) is an upper bound for any solution to (8).
To understand (iii) and (iv), note that as βt → ∞, the impact on pos∗
∗
vanishes for any xt > θt−1
.
terior beliefs of the knowledge that θ > θt−1
∗
∗
By implication, as βt → ∞, the difference between U(θ  θt−1  βt  α z) and
∗
. Combined with the fact
U(θ∗  −∞ βt  α z) also vanishes for any θ∗ > θt−1
∗
∗
that U(θ  −∞ βt  α z) → θ∞ − θ as βt → ∞, this implies that, for βt suffi∗
< θ∞ , and no sociently high, (8) necessarily admits at least one solution if θt−1
∗
lution if θt−1 > θ∞ , where θ∞ = limt→∞ θ̂t is the limit of the equilibrium threshold in the static game for β → ∞.
Finally, to understand (v), suppose that the largest possible attack (that is,
the one that corresponds to the highest solution to (8)) is played in one period and is unsuccessful. Then the upward shift in posterior beliefs induced by
the observation that the status quo survived the attack is such that if no new
information arrives, no further attack is possible in any subsequent period. By
continuity then, further attacks remain impossible as long as the change in the
precision of private information is not large enough.
4. MULTIPLICITY AND DYNAMICS
Part (v) of Lemma 2 highlights that the arrival of new private information is
necessary for further attacks to become possible after period 1. Whether this
is also sufficient depends on the prior mean.
When z is sufficiently low (“aggressive prior”), discounting the prior contributes to less aggressive behavior in the sense that θ̂t decreases with βt and,
hence, θ̂t < θ̂1 for all t ≥ 2. It follows that an agent who is aware of the fact
that the regime survived period one (i.e., that θ > θ̂1 ) is not willing to attack in
any period t ≥ 2 if he expects all other agents to play as if no attack occurred
prior to period t (i.e., as in the equilibrium of the static game where attacking is
allowed only in period t). The anticipation that other agents will also take into
account the fact that the regime survived past attacks then makes that agent
even less willing to attack. Therefore, when z is low, the game has a unique
equilibrium, with no attack occurring after the first period.12
When, instead, z is sufficiently high (“lenient prior”), discounting the prior
contributes to more aggressive behavior in the sense that θ̂t increases with βt .
This effect can offset the incentive not to attack induced by the knowledge
that the regime survived past attacks, making new attacks eventually possible.
Indeed, Lemma 2 implies that when θ1∗ < θ∞ (which is the case for z high
enough), a second attack necessarily becomes possible once βt is large enough.
Such an example is illustrated in Figure 2. The dashed line represents the
payoff of the marginal agent in period 1. Its intersection with the horizontal
12

In this case, the unique monotone equilibrium is also the unique equilibrium of the game.

728

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

FIGURE 2.—Equilibria with multiple attacks.

axis defines θ1∗ < θ∞ . The payoff of the marginal agent in period 2 is represented by the dotted line. That in period 3 is represented by the solid line.
Clearly, β2 is low enough that no attack is possible in period 2. In contrast,
β3 is high enough that a new attack is possible. Thus, there exist at least three
equilibria in this example: one in which θt∗ = θ1∗ for all t, another in which
θ2∗ = θ1∗ and θt∗ = θ3 for all t ≥ 3, and a third in which θ2∗ = θ1∗ and θt∗ = θ3 for
all t ≥ 3, where θ3 and θ3 correspond to the two intersections of the solid line
with the horizontal axis.
In the example of Figure 2, both θ3 and θ3 are lower than θ∞ . By Lemma 2,
then, a third attack also becomes possible at some future date. More generally, if z is sufficiently high, any solution to (8) is strictly less than θ∞ in all
periods, which ensures that a new attack eventually becomes possible after any
unsuccessful one. Hence, for z sufficiently high, not only are there multiple
equilibria, but any arbitrary number of attacks can be sustained in equilibrium.
THEOREM 1: There exist thresholds z ≤ z ≤ z such that:
(i) if z ≤ z, there is a unique monotone equilibrium and it is such that an
attack occurs only in period one;
(ii) if z ∈ (z z), there are at most finitely many monotone equilibria and there
exists t̄ < ∞ such that, in any of these equilibria, no attack occurs after period t̄;
(iii) if z > z, there are infinitely many equilibria; if in addition z > z, for any t
and N there is an equilibrium in which N attacks occur after period t.
Finally, z = z = z when c ≤ 1/2, whereas z ≤ z < z when c > 1/2.
PROOF: Recall that θ1∗ = θ̂1 and, for all t ≥ 2, θt∗ < θ̂t , where θ̂t is the unique
solution to U(θ̂ −∞ βt  α z) = 0. As proved in Lemma A1 in the Appendix,

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

729

there exist thresholds z ≤ z ≤ z (possibly functions of β1 and α) with the following properties: θ̂t ≤ θ̂1 for all t if z ≤ z; θ̂1 ≤ (≥) θ∞ if and only z ≥ (≤) z;
and θ̂t < θ∞ for all t if and only if z > z.
(i) Consider first z ≤ z. Then θ̂t ≤ θ̂1 = θ1∗ for all t and, hence, by part (ii)
of Lemma 2, (8) admits no solution at any t ≥ 2. The unique monotone equilibrium is thus θt∗ = θ1∗ for all t.
(ii) Next, consider z ∈ (z z), in which case θ̂1 = θ1∗ > θ∞ , but we cannot
rule out the possibility that there exists a period t ≥ 2 such that θ̂t > θ̂1 and
∗
U(θ∗  θ1∗  βt  α z) = 0 admits a solution. Nevertheless, because θt−1
≥ θ1∗ > θ∞
for all t, by part (iii) of Lemma 2 and the fact that βt → ∞ as t → ∞, there
exists t̄ < ∞ such that (8) admits no solution for t ≥ t̄. Moreover, because (8)
admits at most finitely many solutions for any t < t̄, there are at most finitely
many monotone equilibria and in any such equilibrium, no attack occurs after
period t̄.
(iii) Finally, consider z > z, in which case θ1∗ < θ∞ . Then, by part (iv) of
Lemma 2, there exists a t < ∞ such that U(θ∗  θ1∗  βt  α z) = 0 admits a solution for all t ≥ t . Hence, for any t ≥ t , there is a monotone equilibrium in
which θτ∗ = θ1∗ for τ < t, θt∗ solves U(θt∗  θ1∗  βt  α z) = 0 and θτ∗ = θt∗ for all
τ > t. That is, there exist (countably) infinitely many equilibria, indexed by the
time at which the second attack occurs.
When z ∈ (z z), the second attack may lead to a threshold θt∗ > θ∞ , in which
case a third attack might be impossible. If, however, z > z, then θ̂t < θ∞ for
all t and, hence, by part (ii) of Lemma 2, θt∗ < θ∞ , for all t. By part (iv), a new
attack then eventually becomes possible after any unsuccessful one. It follows
that, for any t ≥ 1 and any N ≥ 1, there exist increasing sequences {t2      tN }
and {θ2      θN }, with t2 ≥ t, such that U(θ2  θ1∗  βt2  α z) = 0, U(θ3  θ2  βt3 
α z) = 0, and so on. The following is then an equilibrium: θτ∗ = θ1∗ for τ < t2 ,
θτ∗ = θj for τ ∈ {tj      tj+1 − 1} and j ∈ {2     N − 1}, and θτ∗ = θN for τ ≥ tN .
That is, for any t ≥ 1 and any N ≥ 1, there exists an equilibrium in which N
attacks occur after period t.
Q.E.D.
The existence of infinitely many equilibria in the case z > z relies on the assumption that the game continues forever as long as the status quo is in place:
if the game ended for exogenous reasons at a finite date, there would exist only
finitely many equilibria. Nevertheless, as long as z > z and βt → ∞ as t → ∞,
then, for any M, there exists a finite T such that the game has at least M equilibria if it ends at date T . Moreover, even when T = 2, the game has multiple
equilibria if β2 is sufficiently high and z > z.
In the remainder of this section, we identify equilibrium properties that seem
useful in understanding the dynamics of crises.
COROLLARY 1: Suppose θ > θ∞ and z > z. The status quo survives in any
monotone equilibrium. Nevertheless, there exists t < ∞ such that, at any t ≥ t, an

730

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

attack can occur, yet does not necessarily take place. Furthermore, any arbitrary
number of attacks is possible.
This property seems to square well with the common view that economic
fundamentals may help predict eventual outcomes (e.g., whether a currency is
eventually devalued), but not when a crisis will occur or whether attacks will
cease. On the contrary, this view is inconsistent with the common-knowledge
version of the model, in which fundamentals fail to predict both the timing of
attacks and the eventual regime outcome whenever they are inside the critical
region. It is also inconsistent with unique-equilibrium models like Morris and
Shin (1999), in which both the timing of attacks and the ultimate fate of the
regime are uniquely pinned down by the fundamentals.
Consider now how the dynamics of attacks depend on the dynamics of information.
COROLLARY 2: After the most aggressive attack for a given period occurs, the
game enters a phase of tranquility, during which no attack is possible. This phase
is longer the slower is the arrival of private information.
Along with the property that, for θ > θ∞ and z > z, a new attack eventually
becomes possible after any unsuccessful one, the preceding result implies that
dynamics may take the form of cycles in which the economy alternates from
phases of tranquility to phases of distress, eventually resulting in a new attack,
without any change in the underlying fundamentals. Once again, this would not
have been possible in our framework if θ were common knowledge or if there
were a unique equilibrium.13
Also note that the set of equilibrium outcomes for any given period exhibits a
discontinuity with respect to the precision of private information in that period:
a transition from a phase of tranquility, where nobody attacking is the unique
equilibrium outcome, to a phase of distress, where the size of attack associated
with any solution of (8) is bounded away from zero, can be triggered by a small
change in βt . As we will see in Section 5.3, a similar discontinuity emerges with
respect to shocks that affect the strength of the status quo: a transition from
one phase to another can then be triggered by an arbitrarily small change in
fundamentals (that is, in payoffs).
Finally, note that these results raise some interesting possibilities for policy
in the context of currency crises. On the one hand, because an increase in c
13
Broner (2005) considered a model that combines a common-knowledge coordination problem à la Obstfeld (1996) with a negative trend in fundamentals à la Krugman (1979). The first
feature delivers multiplicity, while the second ensures that devaluation is eventually inevitable for
exogenous reasons. His analysis thus shares with ours the property that it may be easier to predict
the eventual outcome than the timing of attacks, but it does not share our predictions about the
repeated succession of phases of tranquility and phases of distress nor our focus on changes in
information, rather than changes in fundamentals, as the source of dynamics.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

731

shifts U downward, a central bank might be able to prevent a transition from
a phase of tranquility to a phase of distress—and thus eliminate the risk of
a speculative attack—by raising interest rates or otherwise increasing the opportunity cost of attacking. On the other hand, the level of policy intervention
required to achieve this may increase over time as speculators become more
informed about the underlying fundamentals and may eventually become prohibitively expensive. Thus an interesting possibility is that certain defense policies succeed in postponing but not in escaping a crisis.14
5. EXTENSIONS
In this section, we consider a few extensions of the benchmark model. The
purpose of these extensions is to show how the analysis can accommodate additional elements that the benchmark model has deliberately abstracted from,
but which can be relevant for applications. At the same time, these extensions
show robustness to alternative information assumptions and further clarify the
driving forces behind the results.
5.1. Public News
To capture the effect of public news, we modify the game as follows. In addition to their private signals, agents observe in each period t ≥ 1 a public signal
z̃t = θ + εt , where εt is common noise, normally distributed with zero mean and
precision ηzt > 0, serially uncorrelated, and independent of θ and the noise in
the agents’ private information. These signals may represent, for example, the
information generated by news in the media, publication of government statistics, or announcements by policy makers. We also allow for the possibility
that the game ends for exogenous reasons at a finite date and we denote the
horizon of the game with T , where either T ∈ {2 3   } or T = ∞.
The common posterior about θ conditional on z̃ t ≡ {z̃τ }tτ=1 is Normal with
mean zt and precision αt , where
zt =

αt−1
ηz
zt−1 + t z̃t 
αt
αt

αt = αt−1 + ηzt 

with (z0  α0 ) = (z α). However, because equilibrium play in past periods now
depends on the realizations of past public signals, zt is not a sufficient statistic conditional on the event that the regime is still in place. We thus allow
agents to condition their actions on the entire sequence z̃ t or, equivalently, on
z t ≡ {zτ }tτ=1 . Apart from this modification, the set of monotone equilibria can
be constructed following the same algorithm as in the benchmark model.
14
Another possibility is that such defense measures themselves convey valuable information;
Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2006) examined such signaling effects in a static global game.

732

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

PROPOSITION 3: In the game with public signals, the strategy {at (·)}Tt=0 is
a monotone equilibrium if and only if there exists a sequence of functions
{x∗t (·) θt∗ (·)}Tt=1 , with x∗t : Rt → R and θt∗ : Rt → (0 1), such that:
(i) for all t, at (x̃t  z̃ t ) = 1 if xt < x∗t (z t ) and at (x̃t  z̃ t ) = 0 if xt > x∗t (z t );
(ii) at t = 1, θ1∗ (z1 ) solves U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α1  z1 ) = 0 and x∗1 (z1 ) =
X(θ1∗ (z1 ) β1 );
(iii) at any t ≥ 2, either θt∗ (z t ) solves
(9)

∗
(z t−1 ) βt  αt  zt ) = 0
U(θt∗  θt−1

∗
(z t−1 ) and x∗t (z t ) = −∞.
and x∗t (z t ) = X(θt∗ (z t ) βt ) or θt∗ (z t ) = θt−1

As in the benchmark model without public signals, there always exist equilibria in which attacks cease after any arbitrary period. However, because
∗
(z t−1 ) βt  αt ), (9) admits a solution if and only if zt ≤ z̄t , where
for any (θt−1
∗
z̄t = z̄(θt−1  βt  αt ) is always finite, there also exist equilibria in which an attack occurs in period t for sufficiently low realizations of zt , which proves the
following.
THEOREM 2: In the game with public signals, there always exist multiple equilibria.
This result extends and reinforces Theorem 1: multiplicity now emerges regardless of the mean z of the prior, the precisions {βt  αt }Tt=1 of private and
public information, and the horizon T of the game. This stronger version of
multiplicity relies on the combination of two properties: that sufficiently low
realizations of zt make an attack possible in every period and that the lower
dominance region is eliminated in all periods t ≥ 2 so that no attack also remains possible in every period after the first.
Consider now how the introduction of public news affects the ability of an
“econometrician” to predict the regime outcome and/or the occurrence of an
∗
(z t−1 ) < θ, conattack in any given period. For any t, any θ ∈ (0 1), and any θt−1
dition (9) admits a solution higher than θ if and only if zt is low enough, implying that, conditional on θ, the probability that the status quo is abandoned in
any given period is strictly between 0 and 1. It follows that an econometrician
who can observe θ but cannot observe z t necessarily faces uncertainty about
the event of regime change. On the other hand, if he also knows z t , he may be
able to predict the regime outcome in a given period for some combinations of
θ and z t , without, however, being able to predict whether an attack will occur
or not. For example, take any t ≥ 2, let θ1 (z1 ) and θ̄t (z t ) be the lowest and the
highest solutions to U(θ∗  −∞ β1  α1  z1 ) = 0 and U(θ∗  θ1 (z1 ) βt  αt  zt ) = 0,
respectively, and assume that θ > θ̄t (z t ) > θ1 (z1 ). There is no equilibrium in
which the status is abandoned in period t, but there exist both an equilibrium in

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

733

which an attack occurs and one in which no attack takes place in that period.15
Therefore, the combination of fundamentals and public information may help
predict regime outcomes but not the occurrence of attacks, as in the benchmark model.
Also note that the threshold z̄t , below which (9) admits a solution, decreases
∗
with θt−1
. Hence, an unsuccessful attack, other things being equal, causes a discrete increase in the probability that the game enters a phase during which no
attack is possible. In this sense, the prediction of the benchmark model that
equilibrium dynamics are characterized by the alternation of phases of tranquility and phases of distress survives the introduction of public news; the novelty is that the transition from one phase to another is now stochastic, because
it depends on the realization of z t .
5.2. Signals about Past Attacks
In the analysis so far, agents learn from the outcome of past attacks but receive no information about the size of these attacks. For many applications,
however, it seems natural to allow agents to observe noisy private and/or public signals about the size of past attacks.
In the online supplement (Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2007)) we show
how this can be done without any sacrifice in tractability. The key is to maintain the Normality of the information structure. The algorithm for monotone
equilibria then remains the same as in Proposition 3, except for the fact that
the sequence {βt  αt }∞
t=1 is now part of the equilibrium: the precisions of private and public information in any period t ≥ 2 depend on whether an attack
occurred in the previous period.
As for the structure of equilibrium dynamics, the novelty is that the upward
shift in posterior beliefs caused by an unsuccessful attack may now be diluted
by the information about θ conveyed by the size of the attack. This in turn
may lead to situations where new attacks become possible immediately after
unsuccessful ones, even without any exogenous arrival of information. As a
result, equilibrium dynamics may now feature snowballing effects reminiscent
of the ones highlighted in herding models of crises (e.g., Chari and Kehoe
(2003)).
5.3. Observable Shocks: Changes in Fundamentals as a Source of Dynamics
In this section we introduce shocks to the sustainability of the regime. In particular, we modify the benchmark model as follows. The regime is abandoned
∗
Because in any equilibrium necessarily θt−1
(z t−1 ) ≥ θ1 (z1 ), from part (i) in Lemma 1, θ̄t (z t )
∗
t
is an upper bound for θt (z ). This implies that if θ > θ̄t (z t ) > θ1 (z1 ), there is no equilibrium
in which the regime is abandoned in period t. On the other hand, because U(θ∗  θ1 (z1 ) βt  αt 
zt ) = 0 admits a solution θ∗ = θ̄t (z t ) > θ1 (z1 ), there exists an equilibrium in which the second
attack occurs exactly in period t.
15

734

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

in period t if and only if At ≥ h(θ δωt ). The variable θ continues to represent the “strength of the status quo,” while ωt is an exogenous disturbance,
independent of θ and independent and identically distributed over time, with
absolutely continuous cumulative distribution function F and support R. The
scalar δ > 0 parameterizes the volatility of these disturbances. Finally, for simplicity, the function h is assumed to be linear, with h(θ δωt ) = θ + δωt . We
denote this game with Γ (δ), nesting the baseline model as δ = 0.
We assume here that ωt is publicly observable, which may be relevant for
certain applications of interest. In the case of currency attacks, for example, θ
may represent the “type” of the central banker, whereas ωt may capture the
role of interest rates, financial prices, and other macroeconomic variables that
are readily observable by economic agents and that may affect the willingness
or ability of the central banker to defend the peg.16
As we show next, observable shocks are easy to incorporate in the analysis,
because they affect equilibrium dynamics without introducing any noise in the
learning about θ. The exercise here is thus useful not only for applications, but
also for separating the role of shocks as drivers of equilibrium dynamics from
their role as additional sources of noise in learning.
Equilibrium characterization
Given that the shocks are observable, the strategy of the agents in period t is
contingent on both x̃t and ωt ≡ {ω1      ωt }. Accordingly, the regime outcome
in period t is contingent on both θ and ωt . A monotone equilibrium can thus
be characterized by a sequence of function {x∗t (·) θt∗ (·)}∞
t=1 such that an agent
attacks in period t if and only if xt < x∗ (ωt ) and the status quo is in place in
period t + 1 if and only if θ > θt∗ (ωt ).
Note that sufficiently negative shocks reintroduce the lower dominance re∗
gion: whenever θt−1
(ωt−1 ) + δωt < 0, it is dominant for agents with sufficiently
low xt to attack. Otherwise, the structure of equilibria and the algorithm for
constructing them are similar to those in the benchmark model.
PROPOSITION 4: In the game with observable shocks, the strategy {at (·)}∞
t=1
is a monotone equilibrium if and only if there exists a sequence of functions
∗
t
∗
t
{x∗t (·) θt∗ (·)}∞
t=1 with xt : R → R̄ and θt : R → (0 1) such that:
t
t
∗
t
(i) for all t, at (x̃  ω ) = 1 if xt < xt (ω ) and at (x̃t  ωt ) = 0 if xt > x∗t (ωt );
(ii) for t = 1, θ1∗ (ω1 ) solves U(θ1∗ (ω1 ) + δω1  −∞ β1  α z + δω1 ) = 0 and
∗
x1 (ω1 ) = X(θt∗ (ω1 ) + δω1  β1 ) − δω1 ;
(iii) for any t ≥ 2, either θt∗ (ωt ) solves
(10)

∗
(ωt−1 ) + δωt  βt  α z + δωt = 0
U θt∗ (ωt ) + δωt  θt−1

16
An alternative would have been to allow for shocks in the opportunity cost of attacking by
letting c depend on ωt .

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

735

∗
and x∗t (ωt ) = X(θt∗ (ωt ) + δωt  βt ) − δωt , or θt∗ (ωt ) = θt−1
(ωt−1 ) ≥ −δωt and
∗
t
xt (ω ) = −∞.

This result can be understood as follows. Although the critical size of attack
that is necessary for regime change is constant in the benchmark model, here
it varies over time as a consequence of shocks. However, because shocks are
observable, the structure of beliefs remains the same apart from a “change of
variables” in the following sense. Let ht ≡ θ + δωt be the critical size of attack
for period t, let xt ≡ xt + δωt , and let zt ≡ z + δωt . The distribution of ht conditional on x̃t is Normal with mean βt /(βt + α)xt + α/(βt + α)zt and precision
∗
βt + α, while the knowledge that θ > θt−1
(ωt−1 ) is equivalent to the knowledge
∗
t−1
that ht > θt−1 (ω ) + δωt . It follows that the net payoff from attacking for the
∗
marginal agent in period t is U(θt∗ (ωt ) + δωt  θt−1
(ωt ) + δωt ; βt  α z + δωt ).
The result then follows from the same arguments as in the proof of Proposition 2.
Multiplicity and dynamics
Interesting new effects can emerge because of the interaction of information and shocks. The equilibrium dynamics again feature phases of tranquility,
where an attack is impossible, and phases of distress, where an attack is possible but does not necessarily take place. However, shocks provide a second
channel through which a transition from one phase to another can occur. In
particular, a transition from distress to tranquility may now be triggered either by an unsuccessful attack or by an improvement in fundamentals (a positive ωt ), and a transition from tranquility to distress can be caused either by
the arrival of new private information or by a deterioration in fundamentals
(a negative ωt ). What is more, the economy can now enter a phase where an
attack is inevitable—a scenario that was impossible in the benchmark model,
but becomes possible here because sufficiently bad shocks reintroduce a lower
dominance region.17
If the benchmark game Γ (0) admits multiple equilibria, then the game with
shocks Γ (δ) also admits multiple equilibria, regardless of δ; to see this, it suffices to consider realizations of ωt close enough to zero. Moreover, because
the impact of shocks on the conditions that characterize the equilibrium dynamics clearly vanishes as δ → 0, the following equilibrium convergence result
holds: for any T > 0, any ε > 0, and any equilibrium {x∗t  θt∗ }∞
t=1 of the benchmark game Γ (0), there exists a δ̂ > 0 such that for all δ < δ̂ the game Γ (δ)
admits an equilibrium {xδt (·) θtδ (·)}∞
t=1 such that the unconditional probability
that |θtδ (ωt ) − θt∗ | < ε for all t ≤ T is higher than 1 − ε.18
17
Another difference is that not attacking becomes dominant for sufficiently high ωt regardless of xt , whereas in the benchmark model not attacking is at most iteratively dominant for
sufficiently low xt . This, however, makes little difference in terms of observable dynamics.
18
This result is proved in the online supplement (Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2007)).

736

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

None of these results, however, should be surprising given that shocks do not
interfere with the learning process. Indeed, what is important for the results of
this section is not the absence of uncertainty about the shocks, but the fact that
the shocks do not introduce noise in learning.
To see this, consider the case that ωt is unobservable in period t but becomes commonly known at the beginning of period t + 1. Then agents face
additional uncertainty about the regime outcome but the knowledge that the
regime has survived past attacks still translates into common certainty that θ is
above a certain threshold. That is, the form of learning remains as sharp as in
the benchmark model. Not surprisingly then, the aforementioned equilibrium
convergence result extends to this case as well.19
We conclude that with respect to robustness the question of interest is
whether equilibrium convergence obtains in situations where shocks also introduce noise in learning. To examine this question, we next turn to the case
that ωt remains unobservable in all periods.
5.4. Unobservable Shocks: Noisy Learning
We now modify the game with shocks examined in the previous section
by letting ωt be unobservable. The unobservability of shocks “noises up” the
learning process and ensures that the updating of beliefs caused by the knowledge that the regime is still in place never takes the form of a truncation—
agents’ posteriors have full support in R in all periods. The case of unobservable shocks that we examine in this section is therefore most significant from a
theoretical perspective.
In what follows, we first explain how unobservable shocks affect the algorithm for the construction of equilibria. We then show how the equilibria in
the benchmark model can be approximated arbitrarily well by equilibria of the
perturbed game as for δ small enough. It follows that the key qualitative properties of the equilibrium dynamics identified in the benchmark model—the
multiplicity and the succession of phases of tranquility and distress—extend to
the case with unobservable shocks provided that the volatility of these shocks
is small enough and that we reinterpret a phase of tranquility as one where at
most an (arbitrarily) small attack is possible.
Equilibrium characterization
Because ωt affects the regime outcome and is unobserved, the possibility to
characterize the set of monotone equilibria in terms of a sequence of truncation points for θ is lost. Nevertheless, as long as private information can be
summarized by a sufficient statistic xt ∈ R, we can still characterize monotone
equilibria as sequences of thresholds {x∗t }∞
t=1 such that an agent attacks in pe∗
∗
riod t if and only if xt ≤ xt , where xt ∈ R.
19

This case is also examined in the online supplement (Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2007)).

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

737

To see this, consider an arbitrary monotone strategy, indexed by the sequence of thresholds {x̄t }∞
t=1 , such that an agent attacks in period t if and only
if x√t < x̄t . Given this strategy, the size of the attack in period t is At (θ) =
( βt (x̄t − θ)), and hence the status quo is abandoned in that period if and
only if ωt ≤ ω̄δt (θ; x̄t ), where
ω̄δt (θ; x̄t ) ≡


1 
( βt (x̄t − θ)) − θ 
δ

It follows that the probability of regime change in period t conditional on θ is
pδt (θ; x̄t ) = F(ω̄δt (θ; x̄t ))
Next, consider the learning about θ that is induced when the strategy {x̄t }∞
t=1
is played. For any t ≥ 2, let ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ) denote the density of the common posterior about θ, when in previous periods agents followed monotone strategies
with thresholds x̄t−1 = {x̄1      x̄t−1 }. By Bayes’ rule,
ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ) =  +∞

[1 − pδt−1 (θ; x̄t−1 )]ψδt−1 (θ; x̄t−2 )

[1 − pδt−1 (θ ; x̄t−1 )]ψδt−1 (θ ; x̄t−2 ) dθ
t−1
[1 − pδs (θ; x̄s )]ψδ1 (θ)
=  +∞ s=1

t−1
δ
δ
s=1 [1 − ps (θ ; x̄s )]ψ1 (θ ) dθ
−∞
−∞

√
√
where ψδ1 (θ) = αφ( α(θ − z)) is the density of the initial prior. When δ = 0,
the density ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ) reduces to that of a truncated Normal, with trunca√
tion point θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ) ≡ min{θ : θ ≥ ( βτ (x̄τ − θ)) ∀ τ ≤ t − 1}. When instead
δ > 0, learning is “smoother” in the sense that ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ) is strictly positive
and continuous over the entire real line.
t
Finally, consider payoffs. For any t ≥ 1, x ∈ R, and x̄t ∈ R , let vtδ (x; x̄t ) denote the net expected payoff from attacking in period t for an agent with sufficient statistics x when all other agents attack in period τ ≤ t if and only if their
sufficient statistic in τ is less than or equal to x̄τ . This is given by
v (x; x̄ ) =
δ
t

 +∞

t

−∞

pδt (θ; x̄t )ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) dθ − c

where ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) denotes the density of the private posterior in period t.
(The latter is computed applying Bayes’ rule to the common posteriors
ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ).) Note that vtδ (x; x̄t ) depends on both the contemporaneous threshold x̄t and the sequence of past thresholds x̄t−1 ; the former determines the

738

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

probability of regime change conditional on θ, whereas the latter determines
t
the posterior beliefs about θ. Next, for any t ≥ 1 and x̄t ∈ R , let

lim vδ (x; x̄t ) if x̄t = +∞,


 x→+∞ t
Vt δ (x̄t ) ≡ vtδ (x̄t ; x̄t )
(11)
if x̄t ∈ R,


 lim vtδ (x; x̄t ) if x̄t = −∞.
x→−∞

The function Vt is the analogue of the function U in the benchmark model: it
represents the net payoff from attacking in period t for the marginal agent with
sufficient statistic xt = x̄t .
In Lemma A2 in the Appendix, we prove that, for any δ > 0, Vt δ (x̄t ) is cont−1
tinuous in x̄t for any x̄t ∈ R × R, which we use to establish the existence, and
complete the characterization, of monotone equilibria.
PROPOSITION 5: For any δ > 0, the strategy {at (·)}∞
t=1 is a monotone equilibrium for Γ (δ) if and only if there exists a sequence of thresholds {x∗t }∞
t=1 such that:
(i) for all t, at (x̃t ) = 1 if xt < x∗t and at (x̃t ) = 0 if xt > x∗t ;
(ii) for t = 1, x∗1 ∈ R and V1δ (x∗1 ) = 0;
(iii) for any t ≥ 2, either x∗t = −∞ and Vt δ (x∗t ) ≤ 0 or x∗t ∈ R and Vt δ (x∗t ) = 0.
A monotone equilibrium exists for any δ > 0.
The equilibrium algorithm provided by Proposition 5 clearly applies also to
δ = 0 and is similar to the one in Proposition 2: start with t = 1 and let x∗1 be
the unique solution to V1δ (x∗1 ) = 0; proceed to t = 2 and either let x∗2 = −∞
if V2δ (x∗1  −∞) ≤ 0 or let x∗2 be the solution to V2δ (x∗1  x∗2 ) = 0; repeat for any
t ≥ 3. The difference is that here at each step t we need to keep track of the
entire sequence of past thresholds x∗t−1 , while in the algorithm in Proposition 2
∗
the impact of x∗t−1 on period-t beliefs was summarized by θt−1
.
Multiplicity and dynamics
As δ → 0, the dependence of the regime outcome on the shock ωt vanishes. By implication, the posteriors in any period t ≥ 2 converge pointwise
to truncated Normals as in the benchmark model. The pointwise convergence
of pδt and ψδt in turn implies pointwise convergence of the payoff of the marginal agent: for t = 1 and any x̄1 , V1δ (x̄1 ) → V10 (x̄1 ) ≡ U(θ̄1 (x̄1 ) −∞ β1  α z);
similarly, for any t ≥ 2, x̄t−1 and x̄t > −∞,
Vt δ (x̄t ) → Vt 0 (x̄t ) ≡ U θ̄t (x̄t ) θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ) βt  α z 
Pointwise convergence of payoffs, however, can fail for t ≥ 2 at x̄t = −∞. To
see why, note that in the presence of shocks, an agent with sufficiently low xt
may attach probability higher than c to regime change in period t ≥ 2 even

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

739

if he expects no other agent to attack in that period. When this is the case,
a positive measure of agents may attack in every period in the perturbed game,
unlike the benchmark model.
Nevertheless, the pointwise convergence of Vt δ (x̄t ) for any x̄t such that
x̄t > −∞ ensures that this dominance region vanishes as δ → 0. It also ensures
that given x̄t−1 , whenever Vt 0 (x̄t ) has an intersection with the horizontal axis at
x̄t = x̂t , Vt δ also has a nearby intersection for δ > 0 small enough. These properties imply that any equilibrium in the benchmark game can be approximated
arbitrarily well by an equilibrium in the perturbed game, except for knife-edge
cases where Vt 0 (or equivalently U) is tangent to the horizontal axis instead of
intersecting it.
THEOREM 3: For any ε > 0 and any T < ∞, there exists δ(ε T ) > 0 such that
the following is true for all δ < δ(ε T ):
∗
For any equilibrium {x∗t }∞
/ arg maxx Vt 0 (x∗t−1  x) for all
t=1 of Γ (0) such that xt ∈
δ ∞
t ∈ {2     T }, there exists an equilibrium {xt }t=1 of Γ (δ) such that, for all t ≤ T ,
|xδt − x∗t | < ε if x∗t ∈ R and xδt < −1/ε if x∗t = −∞.
The result is illustrated in Figures 3 and 4 for an example where T = 2 and
where Γ (0) admits multiple equilibria. The solid line in Figure 3 represents
the probability density function of the common posterior in period 2 generated by equilibrium play in period 1 in the game without shocks (δ = 0). This
is simply the initial prior truncated at θ1∗ = θ̄1 (x∗1 ), where x∗1 is the unique
solution to V10 (x∗1 ) = 0 (or equivalently where θ1∗ is the unique solution to
U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α z) = 0). The other two lines represent the equilibrium common posteriors ψδ2 (θ; xδ1 ) for the game with shocks (δ > 0), where xδ1 is the
unique solution to V1δ (xδ1 ) = 0; the dotted line corresponds to a relatively high δ
and the dashed one to a low δ. Because the support of ωt is the entire real line,
the probability of regime change is less than 1 for any θ and therefore ψδ2 is
strictly positive for all θ. However, as δ becomes smaller, xδ1 converges to x∗1
and the probability of regime change at t = 1 converges to 1 for θ < θ1∗ and
to 0 for θ > θ1∗ . By implication, the smooth posterior of the perturbed game in
period 2 converges to the truncated posterior of the benchmark model.
In Figure 4, the solid line represents the payoff V20 (x∗1  x2 ) of the marginal
agent in period 2 for δ = 0, whereas the other two lines represent the payoff
V2δ (xδ1  x2 ) for δ > 0.20 Note that for x2 small enough, V20 is negative but V2δ is
positive, which implies that nobody attacking in period 2 is part of an equilibrium in the benchmark model but not in the game with shocks.21 Moreover,
To illustrate V2δ over its entire domain, the figure depicts V2δ (xδ1  x2 ) against f (x2 ) rather
than x2 , where f is a strictly increasing function that maps R onto a bounded interval (e.g.,
f = ).
21
In this example an agent finds it dominant to attack in period 2 for sufficiently low x2 . However, this need not be the case if ωt has a bounded support and δ is small enough.
20

740

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

FIGURE 3.—Common posteriors with and without shocks.

when δ is high (dotted line), V2δ is monotonic in x2 and therefore has a single
intersection with the horizontal line, in which case the equilibrium would be
unique if the game ended in period 2. When, instead, δ is sufficiently small
(dashed line), V2δ is nonmonotonic and has three intersections, which correspond to three different equilibria for the two-period game with shocks. The
middle and the highest intersections approximate the two intersections of the
solid line, while the lowest intersection is arbitrarily small, thus approximating
x∗2 = −∞. Along with the fact that xδ1 converges to x∗1 , this implies that any
equilibrium of the two-period game without shocks can be approximated by an
equilibrium of the perturbed game.
At the same time, it is important to recognize that uniqueness is ensured in
the alternative limit as β2 → ∞ for given δ > 0. To see this, note that, for any
given δ > 0, the common posterior in period 2 has a strictly positive density

FIGURE 4.—Payoff of marginal agent with and without shocks.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

741

over the entire real line and hence over a connected set of θ that includes both
dominance regions (θ < 0 and θ > 1). This in turn ensures that standard globalgame uniqueness results apply: uniqueness necessarily obtains in the limit as
the noise in private information vanishes (see Proposition 2.2 in Morris and
Shin (2003)).
However, away from this limit, the impact of private information here is
quite different from that in the static Gaussian benchmark examined in the
literature (Section 2.1). There, private information always contributes toward
uniqueness.22 Here, instead, it can have a nonmonotonic effect on the determinacy of equilibria: for δ small enough, in period 2 uniqueness obtains for β2
either close to β1 or close to ∞, while multiplicity obtains for intermediate β2 .
This nonmonotonic effect of private information in our dynamic game highlights the interaction of private information with equilibrium learning. On the
one hand, more precise private information increases strategic uncertainty as
in the static game; on the other hand, it dilutes the upward shift in posterior
beliefs caused by the knowledge that the regime survived past attacks. Whereas
the first effect contributes to uniqueness, the second can contribute to multiplicity in a similar fashion as in the benchmark game without shocks.
In conclusion, what sustains multiplicity in the dynamic game is the property
that the knowledge that the regime survived attacks in the past provides relevant common information about the strength of the status quo in the present.
That this knowledge resulted in posterior beliefs that assign zero measure to
sufficiently low θ in the benchmark model is not essential. What is important is
that the effect of this information on posterior beliefs is not diluted too much
either by a significant change in fundamentals (sufficiently high δ) or by a significant increase in strategic uncertainty (sufficiently high β).
5.5. Private Information about Shocks: Long- versus Short-Lived Agents
In the environments examined in the preceding subsections, agents had no
private information about the shocks. Relaxing this assumption may compromise tractability by removing the ability to summarize the history of private
information with a one-dimensional sufficient statistic.
To see this, consider the following variation of the game with shocks. Let
ht denote again the critical size of attack that triggers regime change in
period t and assume that {ht }∞
t=1 are jointly Normal with nonzero correlation across time. To simplify, think of ht following a Gaussian random walk:
h1 = θ ∼ N(z 1/α) and ht = ht−1 + δωt for t ≥ 2, with ωt ∼ N(0 1) being
22
This is true in two senses. First, a higher β makes it more likely that the game satisfies β ≥
α2 /(2π), in which case the equilibrium is unique. Second, whenever β < α2 /(2π), the range of
z for which (1) and (2) admit multiple solutions shrinks with β, and the distance between the
largest and the smallest solutions for any given z also diminishes with β.

742

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

independent and identically distributed across time and independent of θ.23
Next, let the private signals agents receive in period t be x̃t = ht + ξt , where ξt
is independent and identically distributed across agents and time, and is independent of hs for any s.
Consider first t = 1. Equilibrium play is the same as in the static benchmark:
there exist thresholds x∗1 and h∗1 such that an agent attacks if and only if x̃1 ≤ x∗1
and the status quo is abandoned if and only if h1 ≤ h∗1 . Consider next t = 2. The
posterior beliefs about h2 given the private signals x̃1 and x̃2 alone are Normal with mean x2 ≡ λ0 + λ1 x̃1 + λ2 x̃2 and variance σ22 , for some coefficients
(λ0  λ1  λ2  σ2 ). This may suggest that x2 can be used as a sufficient statistic
for (x̃1  x̃2 ) with respect to h2 . However, the posterior beliefs about h2 conditional also on the event that h1 > h∗1 are not invariant in (x̃1  x̃2 ) for given x2 ;
the reason is that x2 is not a sufficient statistic for (x̃1  x̃2 ) with respect to h1 .
Thus, private information cannot be summarized in x2 and equilibrium play in
period 2 is characterized by a function f2 : R2 → R such that an agent attacks
if and only if f2 (x̃1  x̃2 ) ≤ 0 (and a corresponding function g2 : R2 → R such
that regime change occurs if and only if g2 (h1  h2 ) ≤ 0). Similarly, equilibrium
play in any period t ≥ 2 is characterized by a function ft : Rt → R such that
at (x̃t ) = 1 if and only if ft (x̃t ) ≤ 0.
Contrast this with the formalization in the previous section. There, in each
period, we had to solve an equation where the unknown was a real number x̄t .
Here, instead, we need to solve each period a functional equation where the
unknown is a function ft with domain Rt —a function whose dimensionality
explodes with t. Clearly, this is far less tractable, if at all feasible.
Moreover, it is not clear if this alternative formalization brings any substantial gain from a theoretical perspective. Both formalizations ensure that the
critical size of attack ht (and hence the payoff structure) may change over time,
that agents have asymmetric information about ht in each period, and that the
common posterior about ht is continuous over a connected set that includes
both ht < 0 and ht > 1 (and hence that dominance regions are possible for
both actions). In these respects, they both seem to be appropriate extensions
of global games to a dynamic setting.24
Nevertheless, this second formalization may be more appropriate for certain
applications. One way then to restore tractability is to assume that agents are
short-lived. In particular, consider the foregoing game in which ht follows a
Gaussian random walk, with the following modification. As long as the status
quo is in place, a new cohort of agents replaces the old one in each period.
Each cohort is of measure 1 and lives exactly one period. Agents who are born
Note that this is the same as ht = θ + δω̃t , where ω̃t ≡ ω1 + · · · + ωt ; that is, the same as
in the game with shocks in Sections 5.3 and 5.4, but with the shocks correlated across time. For
simplicity, such correlation was not allowed in Sections 5.3 and 5.4.
24
Note that global-game results do not require that agents have private information about all
payoff-relevant variables or that uncertainty vanishes in the limit for all payoff-relevant variables.
23

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

743

in period t receive private signals xt = ht + ξt about ht , where ξt is Normal
noise with precision βt , independent and identically distributed across agents
and independent of hs for any s ≤ t.
Given that ht is correlated across time, the knowledge that the regime survived past attacks is informative about the strength of the regime in the present,
as in the case with long-lived agents. However, unlike that case, agents who
play in period t have no private information other than xt . Together with the
fact that ht alone pins down the cross-sectional distribution of xt , this property ensures that monotone equilibria can again be characterized by sequences
∗
{x∗t  h∗t }∞
t=1 such that in period t an agent attacks if and only if xt < xt and the
∗
status quo is abandoned if and only if ht < ht .
The characterization of equilibria then parallels that in the previous section. To see this, let Ψtδ (ht ; x̄t−1 ) denote the cumulative distribution function
of the common posterior in period t about ht , when agents in earlier cohorts attacked in periods τ ≤ t − 1 if and only if xτ < x̄τ . When earlier cohorts followed
such strategies, the status quo survived
period τ if and only if hτ > θ̄τ (x̄τ ),
√
where θ̄τ (x̄τ ) is the solution to ( βτ (x̄τ − hτ )) = hτ . Therefore, for any t ≥ 2,
Ψtδ (ht ; x̄t−1 ) is recursively defined by
 +∞
δ
((ht − ht−1 )/δ) dΨt−1
(ht−1 ; x̄t−2 )
θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 )
δ
t−1
(12)
Ψt (ht ; x̄ ) =
δ
1 − Ψt−1
(θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ); x̄t−2 )
√
with Ψ1δ (h1 ) = ( α(h1 − z)). Next, let Ψtδ (ht |x; x̄t−1 ) denote the cumulative
distribution function of private posteriors about ht ; this is obtained by applying
Bayes’ rule to (12). Then the expected net payoff from attacking in period t for
an agent with signal x is v1δ (x; x̄1 ) = Ψ1δ (θ̄1 (x̄1 )|x) − c for t = 1 and
(13)

vtδ (x; x̄t ) = Ψtδ (θ̄t (x̄t )|x; x̄t−1 ) − c

for t ≥ 2. Finally, let Vt δ denote the payoff of the marginal agent, as defined in
condition (11), but using the function vtδ as in (13). With Vt δ defined this way,
the equilibrium algorithm of Proposition 5 applies to the environment examined here as well. What is more, because beliefs—and hence payoffs—again
converge to their counterparts in the benchmark game as δ → 0, Theorem 3
also applies. (See the online supplement Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2007)
for details.)
The game with short-lived agents thus permits one to examine environments
where agents have private information about the innovations in fundamentals
while maintaining tractability.
6. CONCLUSION
This paper examined how learning influences coordination in dynamic global
games of regime change. Our results struck a delicate balance between the ear-

744

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

lier common-knowledge and the more recent global-games literature: the dynamics featured both a refined role for multiplicity and a certain discontinuity
of outcomes with respect to changes in information or payoffs. They also led
to novel predictions, such as the possibility that fundamentals predict eventual
outcomes but not the timing and number of attacks, or that dynamics alternate between phases of tranquility, during which agents accumulate information and no attacks are possible, and phases of distress, during which attacks
may occur but do no necessarily take place.
From a methodological perspective, our results offer two lessons with regard
to the recent debate about uniqueness versus multiplicity in coordination environments. First, that equilibrium learning can be a natural source of multiplicity in a dynamic setting, despite the heterogeneity of beliefs. Second, and most
importantly, that this debate may dilute what, at least in our view, is the central contribution of the global-games approach: the understanding of how the
structure of beliefs can lead to interesting and novel predictions about equilibrium behavior well beyond equilibrium determinacy.
From an applied perspective, on the other hand, the predictions we derived
may help one to understand the dynamics of currency attacks, financial crashes,
political change, and other crises phenomena. With this in mind, in Section 5
we sought to give some guidance on how the analysis can be extended to accommodate certain features that were absent in the benchmark model but may
be important for applications. The scope of these extensions, however, was limited to changes in information or in fundamentals—we remained silent about
other dynamic effects (such as those introduced by irreversible actions or liquidity constraints), as well as about the role of large players (such as that of a
“Soros” or a policy maker). Extending the analysis in these directions presents
a promising line for future research.
Dept. of Economics, MIT, 50 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, MA 02142, U.S.A.;
and National Bureau of Economic Research; angelet@mit.edu,
Dept. of Economics, UCLA, Box 951477, CA 90095-1477, U.S.A.; chris@econ.
ucla.edu,
and
Dept. of Economics, Northwestern University, 2001 Sheridan Road, Evanston,
IL 60208-2600, U.S.A.; alepavan@northwestern.edu.
Manuscript received December, 2004; final revision received July, 2006.

APPENDIX: PROOFS OMITTED IN THE MAIN TEXT
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 1: Solving (1) for x̂ gives x̂ = θ̂ + β−1/2 −1 (θ̂). Substituting this into (2) gives a single equation in θ̂,
(14)

U st (θ̂; β α z) = 0

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

745

where
(15)



 √
β
α
−1
 (θ) + √ (z − θ) − c
U (θ; β α z) ≡ 1 −  √
β+α
β
st

Note that U st (θ; ·) is continuous and differentiable in θ ∈ (0 1), with
limθ→0 U st (θ) = 1 − c > 0 and limθ→1 U st (θ) = −c < 0. A solution to (14) therefore always exists. Next, note that
√
 √


β
β
∂U st (θ; )
α
−1
φ √
 (θ) + √ (z − θ)
= −√
∂θ
β+α
β+α
β


1
α
×
−√ 
−1
φ( (θ))
β
√
Given that minθ∈(01) [1/φ(−1 (θ))] = 2π, the condition β ≥ α2 /(2π) is both
necessary and sufficient for U st to be monotonic in θ, in which case the
monotone equilibrium is unique. Finally, for the proof that only this equilibrium survives iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies, see Morris and
Shin (2001, 2003).
Q.E.D.
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 2: Necessity follows from the arguments in the
main text. For sufficiency, take any sequence {x∗t  θt∗ }∞
t=1 that satisfies conditions (ii) and (iii), let θ0∗ = −∞, suppose all other agents follow strategies as
∗
in (i), in which case Rt = 0 if and only if θ > θt−1
for all t ≥ 1, and consider
∗
∗
∗
> 0, and
the best response for an agent. If θt = θt−1 , in which case t ≥ 2, θt−1
∗
∗
∗
xt = −∞, then Pr(Rt+1 = 1|xt  Rt = 0) = Pr(θ ≤ θt |xt  θ > θt−1 ) = 0 for all xt
∗
and therefore not attacking is indeed optimal. If instead θt∗ > θt−1
, in which
∗
∗
∗
∗
case U(θt  θt−1  βt  α z) = 0 and xt = X(θt  βt ), then by the monotonicity of
the private posterior in xt and the definitions of the functions X(·) and U(·),
∗
) − c ≥ (≤) 0 if and only if xt ≤ (≥) x∗t which implies that
Pr(θ ≤ θt∗ |xt  θ > θt−1
it is indeed optimal to attack for xt < x∗t and not to attack for xt > x∗t . Q.E.D.
PROOF OF LEMMA 2: Combining the definitions of the functions u, X,
and U, we have that
∗
U(θ∗  θ−1
 β α z)

∗
1 − c if θ∗ = 0 > θ−1



√


β

 √β+α [−1 (θ∗ ) + √αβ (z − θ∗ )]

1 −
√
− c
√
β
∗
=
 √β+α
[−1 (θ∗ ) + √αβ (z − θ∗ )] + β + α(θ∗ − θ−1
)



∗

if max{0 θ−1
} < θ∗ < 1



∗
∗
or θ∗ = 1 > θ−1

−c
if θ∗ ≤ θ−1

746

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

Part (i) follows by inspecting U.
∗
 βt  α z) < U(θ∗  −∞ βt  α z) for all θ∗ (beFor (ii), note that U(θ∗  θt−1
∗
cause θt−1 > −∞) and that U(θ∗  −∞ βt  α z) = U st (θ∗  βt  α z) is strictly de∗
 βt  α z) < 0
creasing in θ∗ (because βt ≥ α2 /(2π)). It follows that U(θ∗  θt−1
∗
t , which gives the result.
for all θ ≥ θ
∗
∗
> θ∞ . Note that u(θ∗  −∞ β α z) < u(θt−1
 −∞ β
For (iii), take any θt−1
∗
∗
∗
∗
< 0.
α z) for all θ ∈ [θt−1  1] and limβ→∞ U(θt−1  −∞ β α z) = θ∞ − θt−1
∗
It follows that there exists β such that, for any β > β, U(θ  −∞ β α z) <
∗
∗
 1]. Moreover, for all β, U(θ∗  θt−1
 β α z) = −c < 0 for
0 for all θ∗ ∈ [θt−1
∗
∗
∗
∗
∗
∗
θ ≤ θt−1 and U(θ  θt−1  β α z) < U(θ  −∞ β α z) for θ∗ > θt−1
. It follows
∗
∗
∗
that for any β > β, U(θ  θt−1  β α z) < 0 for all θ and therefore (8) admits
no solution.
∗
∗
For (iv), take any θt−1
< θ∞ . Because limβ→∞ U(θ∗  θt−1
 β α z) = θ∞ −
∗
∗
∗
∗
θ > 0 for any θ ∈ (θt−1  θ∞ ), there exist θ ∈ (θt−1  θ∞ ) and β such that for any
∗
∗
β > β, U(θ  θt−1
 β α z) > 0. By the continuity of U(θ∗  θt−1
 β α z) in θ∗
∗
∗
and the fact that limθ∗ →1 U(θ  θt−1  β α z) = −c, it follows then that (8) admits a solution for βt > β.
∗
, βt−1 , α, and z (with θ0∗ ≡ −∞) and
Finally, consider (v). Fix t ≥ 2, θt−2
∗
suppose that θt−1 is the highest solution to (8) for period t − 1, which
∗
∗
 βt−1  α z) < 0 for all θ∗ > θt−1
. This, together with the
means that U(θ∗  θt−2
∗
∗
∗
, continuous in θ∗ ,
properties that U(θ  θ−1  β α z) is nonincreasing in θ−1
∗
∗
and equal to −c for θ ≤ θ−1 , implies that there exists ∆ > 0 such that
∗
 βt−1  α z) < −∆ for all θ∗ ∈ [0 1]. Furthermore, by continuity of U
U(θ∗  θt−1
∗
in (θ  β), there exists β > βt−1 such that U(θ∗  · β ·) is uniformly continuous
over [0 1] × [βt−1  β]. This also implies that there exists β ∈ (βt−1  β) such that
∗
 β α z) < 0 for all β ∈ [βt−1  β) and all θ∗ ∈ [0 1], which proves that
U(θ∗  θt−1
condition (8) admits no solution in any period τ > t for which βτ < β. Q.E.D.
LEMMA A1: There exist thresholds z ≤ z ≤ z such that θ̂t ≤ θ̂1 for all t if z ≤ z;
θ̂1 ≤ (≥) θ∞ if and only z ≥ (≤) z, and θ̂t < θ∞ for all t if and only if z > z. These
thresholds satisfy z = z = z when c ≤ 1/2 and z ≤ z < z when c > 1/2.
PROOF: For any (β α z) with β ≥ α2 /(2π), let θ̂ = θ̂(β α z) be the unique
solution to the equation U(θ̂ −∞ β α z) = 0 (i.e., the static equilibrium
threshold) and let
√
z̃(β α) ≡ θ∞ +

β+α−
α

√

β

−1 (θ∞ )


 √
β
1
−1
 (θ∞ ) + √
−1 (θ∞ )
ẑ(β α) ≡  √
β+α
β+α

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

747

The threshold z̃(β α) is defined by U(θ∞  −∞ β α z̃(β α)) = 0 and is such
that θ̂ ≥ (≤) θ∞ if and only if z ≤ (≥) z̃. The threshold ẑ(β α), on the other
hand, is defined so that ∂θ̂/∂β ≥ (≤) 0 if and only if z ≥ (≤) ẑ. To simplify notation, we henceforth suppress the dependence of θ̂ on (α z) and of z̃ and ẑ
on α.
First, consider c = 1/2, in which case ẑ(β) = z̃(β) = 1/2 for all β. When
z < 1/2, θ̂(β) > θ∞ and ∂θ̂/∂β < 0 for all β ≥ β1 , and therefore θ̂1 ≥ θ̂t >
θ∞ for all t. When z = 1/2 instead, θ̂(β) = θ∞ for any β ≥ β1 and therefore
θ̂1 = θ̂t = θ∞ for all t. Finally, when z > 1/2 then θ̂(β) < θ∞ and ∂θ̂/∂β > 0
for any β ≥ β1 , and hence θ̂1 ≤ θ̂t < θ∞ for all t. The result thus holds with
z = z = z = 1/2.
Next, consider c < 1/2, in which case z̃(β) and ẑ(β) are both decreasing
in β, satisfy ẑ(β) > z̃(β) > θ∞ for all β, and converge to θ∞ as β → ∞. When
z ≤ θ∞ , then clearly z < z̃(β) < ẑ(β) for all β and therefore θ̂(β) is always
higher than θ∞ and decreasing in β, which implies that θ̂1 ≥ θ̂t > θ∞ for all t.
When z ∈ (θ∞  z̃(β1 )), there are β > β > β1 such that z̃(β ) = ẑ(β ) = z. For
β ∈ [β1  β ), θ̂(β) is higher than θ∞ and decreases with β. For β ∈ (β  β ),
θ̂(β) is lower than θ∞ and continues to decrease with β. For β ≥ β , θ̂(β)
increases with β, but never exceeds θ∞ . Hence, θ̂1 > θ∞ and θ̂1 ≥ θ̂t for all t.
When z = z̃(β1 ), θ̂1 = θ∞ ≥ θ̂t for all t. Finally, when z > z̃(β1 ), θ̂(β) < θ∞
for all β and therefore θ̂t < θ∞ for all t. We conclude that the result holds for
c < 1/2 with z = z = z = z̃(β1 ).
Finally, consider c > 1/2, in which case ẑ(β) and z̃(β) are both increasing
in β, satisfy ẑ(β) < z̃(β) < θ∞ , and converge to θ∞ as β → ∞. When z ≤
ẑ(β1 ), then z < ẑ(β) < z̃(β) for all β > β1 and therefore θ̂(β) is always higher
than θ∞ and decreasing in β, which implies that θ̂1 ≥ θ̂t > θ∞ for all t. When
z ∈ (ẑ(β1 ) z̃(β1 )), there is β > β1 such ẑ(β ) = z. For β ∈ (β1  β ), θ̂(β) is
higher than θ∞ and increasing in β, whereas for β > β , θ̂(β) decreases with β,
converging to θ∞ from above. It follows that maxt≥1 θ̂t ≥ θ̂1 > θ∞ . When z =
z̃(β1 ), maxt≥1 θ̂t ≥ θ̂1 = θ∞ . When z ∈ (z̃(β1 ) θ∞ ), there are β > β > β1 such
that z̃(β ) = ẑ(β ) = z. For β ∈ (β1  β ), θ̂(β) is lower than θ∞ and increasing
in β. For β ∈ (β  β ), θ̂(β) is higher than θ∞ and increases with β. For β > β ,
θ̂(β) decreases with β and converges to θ∞ from above as β → ∞. Hence,
maxt≥1 θ̂t > θ∞ > θ̂1 . Finally, when z ≥ θ∞ , then clearly z > z̃(β) > ẑ(β) for all
β and therefore θ̂(β) is always lower than θ∞ , increases with β, and converges
to θ∞ from below as β → ∞. Hence, θ̂1 ≤ θ̂t < θ∞ for all t. We conclude that
the result holds for c > 1/2 with z = ẑ(β1 ), z = z̃(β1 ), and z = θ∞ .
Q.E.D.
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 3: Apart from a notational adjustment—namely
the dependence of U in period t on (αt  zt ) and of (x∗t  θt∗ ) on z t —the proof

748

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

follows exactly the same steps as in the model with only private information.
Q.E.D.
PROOF OF THEOREM 2: Consider first t = 1. For any (β1  α1  z1 ),
U(θ∗  −∞ β1  α1  z1 ) is continuous in θ∗ ∈ [0 1] with U(0 −∞ ·) = 1 − c
and U(1 −∞ ·) = −c. Hence a solution θ1∗ (z1 ) to U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α1  z1 ) = 0
∗
 βt  αt )
always exists.25 Next, consider any t ≥ 2 and note that, for any (θt−1
∗
∗
∗
∗
and any θ ∈ (θt−1  1), U(θ  θt−1  βt  αt  zt ) is strictly decreasing in zt with
U(θ∗  · zt ) → 1 − c > 0 as zt → −∞, implying that necessarily
∗
∗ 1] U(θ  · zt ) > 0
maxθ∗ ∈[θ−1
for zt sufficiently low. Furthermore, since
∗
U(θ∗  · zt ) is continuous in θ∗ ∈ [θt−1
 1] for any zt , and since U(θ∗  · zt ) → −c
∗
 1] as zt → +∞, the function U(θ∗  · zt )
monotonically for any θ∗ ∈ [θt−1
∗
converges uniformly to −c for any θ∗ ∈ [θt−1
 1] as zt → +∞, implying
∗
∗
that maxθ∗ ∈[θ−1 1] U(θ  θt−1  βt  αt  zt ) < 0 for zt sufficiently high. The strict
∗
 βt  αt )
monotonicity of U in zt then guarantees that there exists a finite z̄(θt−1
∗
∗
∗
∗ 1] U(θ  θ
such that maxθ∗ ∈[θt−1

β

α

z
)
≥
(≤)
0
if
and
only
if
z
≤
(≥)
z̄(θt−1

t
t
t
t−1
∗
t
∗
t−1
βt  αt ), which implies that (9) admits a solution θt (z ) > θt−1 (z ) if and only if
∗
zt ≤ z̄(θt−1
(z t−1 ) βt  αt ). The following is then an equilibrium: for t = 1, θ1∗ (z1 )
is any solution to U(θ1∗  −∞ β1  α1  z1 ) = 0; for any t ∈ {2     T }, θt∗ (z t ) =
∗
∗
max({θt−1
(z t−1 )} ∪ {θ∗ : U(θ∗  θt−1
(z t−1 ) βt  αt  zt ) = 0}). Note that in this equi∗
t
∗
∗
librium, at any t ≥ 2, θt (z ) > θt−1 (z t−1 ) for all zt ≤ z̄(θt−1
(z t−1 ) βt  αt ). Given
∗
t
∗
t
that θt (z ) = θ1 (z1 ) for all z and all t is also an equilibrium, we conclude that
the game admits multiple equilibria for any {βt  αt }Tt=1 and any T ≥ 2. Q.E.D.
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 4: Parts (i) and (ii) are immediate. For part (iii),
note that in each period t ≥ 2 there are two possible cases: either an attack
takes place (x∗t (ωt ) > −∞) or it does not (x∗t (ωt ) = −∞).
∗
If x∗t (ωt ) > −∞, it must be that θt∗ (ωt ) > θt−1
(ωt−1 ), for otherwise the posterior probability of regime change would be zero for any xt and attacking would
never be optimal; moreover, it must be that the thresholds θt∗ (ωt ) and x∗t (ωt )
∗
solve At (θt∗ ) = θt∗ + δωt and Pr(θ < θt∗ |x∗t  θ ≥ θt−1
(ωt−1 )) = c or, equivalently,

θt∗ (ωt ) + δωt =  βx (x∗t (ωt ) − θt∗ (ωt )) 
√
 βt + α( βtβ+α x∗t (ωt ) + βtα+α z − θt∗ (ωt ))
= c
1− √
∗
 βt + α( βtβ+α x∗t (ωt ) + βtα+α z − θt−1
(ωt−1 ))
Using the definitions of the functions X and U from the benchmark model, the
preceding two conditions are equivalent to x∗t (ωt ) = X(θt∗ (ωt )+δωt  βt )−δωt
and (10). Conversely, if (10) admits a solution, then there exists an equilibrium
with an attack in period t. This establishes the first half of part (iii).
25
Note that the function θ1∗ (·) is unique if and only if β1 ≥ α21 /2π. Hence for β1 < α21 /2π, the
game trivially admits multiple equilibria even if T = 1.

749

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

∗
If, on the other hand, x∗t (ωt ) = −∞, it must be that θt−1
(ωt−1 ) + δωt ≥ 0,
for otherwise it would be dominant for some agents to attack. Conversely,
∗
(ωt−1 ) + δωt ≥ 0 ensures that there is an equilibrium in which no attack
θt−1
takes place in period t. This establishes the second half of part (iii).
Q.E.D.

LEMMA A2: For t = 1, V1δ (x̄1 ) is continuous in x̄1 for any x̄1 ∈ R; for t ≥ 2,
t−1
Vt (x̄t ) is continuous in x̄t for any x̄t ∈ R × R.26
δ

PROOF: Consider first δ = 0, in which case V10 (x̄1 ) ≡ U(θ̄1 (x̄1 ) −∞ β1  α
z) and Vt 0 (x̄t ) ≡ U(θ̄t (x̄t ) θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ) βt  α z) for t ≥ 2. Note that for all t,
√
θ̄t (x̄t ) ≡ min{θ : θ ≥ ( βτ (x̄τ − θ)) ∀ τ ≤ t} is continuous over R̄ and takes
values in [0 1]. Furthermore, U(θ∗  −∞ β α z) is continuous in θ ∈ [0 1]
∗
∗
 β α z) is continuous in (θ∗  θ−1
) over [0 1]2 . It follows that for
and U(θ∗  θ−1
t
all t, Vt 0 (x̄t ) is continuous over R .
√
Consider next δ > 0. For all t ≥ 1, the function pδt (θ; x̄t ) = F([( βt (x̄t −
θ)) − θ]/δ) is continuous in θ ∈ R and x̄t ∈ R, increasing in x̄t , and decreasing in θ; it is bounded in [0 1], and it satisfies limθ→∞ pδt (θ; x̄t ) = 0 and
limθ→−∞ pδt (θ; x̄t ) = 1 for any x̄t ∈ R. The
√ probability density function of the
private posteriors for t = 1, ψδ1 (θ|x) = φ( β1 + α(θ − (β1 x + αz)/(β1 + α))),
is clearly continuous in θ ∈ R and x ∈ R, and similarly
 +∞ for the cumulative distribution function Ψ1δ . It follows that v1 (x; x̄1 ) = −∞ pδ1 (θ; x̄1 ) dΨ1 (θ|x) − c is
continuous in (x x̄1 ) ∈ R × R. For any t ≥ 2, from Bayes’ rule,
ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 )
√
φ( βt (x − θ))ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 )
=  +∞ √
φ( βt (x − θ ))ψδt (θ ; x̄t−1 ) dθ
−∞
t−1
√
δ
βt + α(θ − ββt x+αz
)
s=1 [1 − ps (θ; x̄s )]φ
t +α
=  +∞ t−1

√
β
x+αz
t
δ (θ ; x̄ )]φ
[1
−
p
β
+
α(θ
−
)
dθ
s
t
s
s=1
−∞
βt +α

t

t

Continuity can be extended over R as follows. For any function f : A → R, where A ⊆ R and
t ≥ 1, we say that f is continuous over A if and only if, for any xt ∈ A and any ε > 0, there exists
η > 0 such that, for any x̃t ∈ A such that for all τ ≤ t, (a) |x̃τ − xτ | < η if xτ ∈ R, (b) x̃τ < −1/η
if xτ = −∞, (c) x̃τ > 1/η if xτ = +∞, the following statements are true: (a ) if f (xt ) ∈ R, then
|f (x̃t ) − f (xt )| < ε; (b ) if f (xt ) = −∞, then f (x̃t ) < −1/ε; (c ) if f (xt ) = +∞, then f (x̃t ) > 1/ε.
Note that, if f : A → R, g : B → R, and q : C → R are continuous, respectively, over A, B, and C,
t
k
2
where A ⊆ R , B ⊆ R , and f (A) × g(B) ⊆ C ⊆ R , then the function w : A × B → R defined by
t
k
t
k
w(x  x ) = q(f (x ) g(x )) is continuous over A × B.
26

750

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN
t−1

t−1
which is also continuous in θ ∈ R and (x
 +∞x̄ δ) ∈ R × Rδ , andt−1similarly
δ 27
t−1
for Ψt . It follows that vt (x; x̄  x̄t ) = −∞ pt (θ; x̄t ) dΨt (θ|x; x̄ ) − c is
t
continuous in (x x̄t−1  x̄t ) ∈ R × R . Moreover, for all t, because pδt (θ; x̄t ) is
bounded in [0 1], vtδ (x; x̄t ) is bounded in [−c 1 − c]. In addition, because the
distribution of x given θ satisfies the Monotone Likelihood Ratio Property
and pδt (θ; x̄t ) is decreasing in θ, by standard representation theorems (Milgrom (1981)) we have that vtδ (x; x̄t ) is decreasing in x ∈ R. It follows that
t
limx→−∞ vtδ (x; x̄t ) and limx→+∞ vtδ (x; x̄t ) exist for any x̄t ∈ R , and therefore
Vt δ (x̄t ) is well defined for x̄t = ±∞. Finally, because vtδ (x; x̄t−1  x̄t ) is cont−1
tinuous in (x x̄t−1  x̄t ) ∈ R × R × R, it is immediate that Vt δ (x̄t−1  x̄t ) =
t−1
Q.E.D.
vtδ (x̄t ; x̄t−1  x̄t ) is continuous in (x̄t−1  x̄t ) ∈ R × R.

PROOF OF PROPOSITION 5: Sufficiency. Consider a sequence {x∗t }∞
t=1 that satisfies conditions (ii) and (iii) in the proposition. The monotonicity of vtδ (x; x̄t )
with respect to x (established in the proof of Lemma A2) guarantees that for
any x ∈ R, vtδ (x; x∗t ) ≥ (≤) Vt δ (x∗t ) if and only if x ≤ (≥) x∗t . It follows that the
strategies defined by (i)–(iii) constitute a monotone equilibrium.
Necessity. Conversely, suppose that {at (·)}∞
t=1 is a monotone equilibrium.
Given that in any such equilibrium the measure of agents who attack in every
period is decreasing in θ, the probability of regime change is also decreasing in θ. Then, by standard representation theorems (Milgrom (1981)), the
expected payoff from attacking is decreasing in xt , implying that agents must
follow cutoff strategies. For {x∗t }∞
t=1 to be equilibrium cutoffs, it must be that for
all t Vt δ (x∗t ) = 0 if −∞ < x∗t < +∞, Vt δ (x∗t ) ≤ 0 if x∗t = −∞, and Vt δ (x∗t ) ≥ 0
if x∗t = +∞.
We next show that in any equilibrium, x∗t < +∞ for all t ≥ 1 and x∗1 > −∞.
Indeed, if x∗t = +∞, in which case pδt (θ; x∗t ) = F((1 − θ)/δ), then for any t ≥ 2,
t−1
(x x̄t−1 ) ∈ R × R , and θ ∈ R,
vtδ (x; x̄t−1  +∞)

 +∞ 
1
F
=
(1 − θ) ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) dθ − c
δ
−∞

 θ 
1
=
F
(1 − θ) ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) dθ
δ
−∞

 +∞ 
1
+
F
(1 − θ) ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) dθ − c
δ
θ
t−1
To see this, note that the function q defined by q(p1      pt−1  φ) = s=1 [1 − ps ]φ is contint−1
uous over [0 1] × R, each ps is continuous over x̄s ∈ R, and φ is continuous in x ∈ R.
27

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

751




1
δ
t−1
(1 − θ ) [1 − Ψtδ (θ |x; x̄t−1 )] − c
≤ Ψt (θ |x; x̄ ) + F
δ
θ
where Ψtδ (θ |x; x̄t−1 ) = −∞ ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) dθ. Furthermore, because the knowledge that the status quo survived past attacks causes a first-order
√ stochastic(θ |x; x̄t−1 ) ≤ ( βt + α(θ −
dominance change in posterior beliefs,28 Ψtδ√
(βt x + αz)/(βt + α))). Along with limx→+∞ ( βt + α(θ − (βt x + αz)/(βt +
α))) = 0, this implies that limx→+∞ vtδ (x; x̄t−1  +∞) ≤ F((1 − θ )/δ) − c. Because the latter is true for any θ ∈ R, it is also true for θ → +∞, in which
case F((1 − θ )/δ) → 0. Together with the fact that vtδ is bounded from below
by −c, this implies that V δ (x̄t−1  +∞) = limx→+∞ vtδ (x; x̄t−1  +∞) = −c < 0
and hence x∗t = +∞ cannot be part of any equilibrium. A similar argument
rules out x∗1 = +∞. Finally, suppose x∗1 = −∞. Then for any x ∈ R and any
θ ∈ R,

 +∞ 
1
δ
(−θ) ψδ1 (θ|x) dθ − c
v1 (x; −∞) =
F
δ
−∞


1
δ
≥ Ψ1 (θ |x)F
(−θ ) − c
δ
θ
where Ψ1δ (θ |x) = −∞ ψδ1 (θ|x) dθ, and therefore limx→−∞ v1δ (x; −∞) ≥
F((−θ )/δ) − c. Because this is true also for θ → −∞ and because v1δ is
bounded from above by 1 − c, we have that V1δ (−∞) = limx→−∞ v1δ (x; −∞) =
1 − c > 0, implying that x∗1 = −∞ cannot be part of an equilibrium.
We conclude that (i)–(iii) necessarily hold in any monotone equilibrium.
Existence. For any δ > 0, the monotonicity of v1δ (x; x̄1 ) in x̄1 , along with
its continuity in x for any x̄1 and the fact that limx→−∞ v1δ (x −∞) > 0 >
limx→+∞ v1δ (x +∞), implies that there exist x  x ∈ R such that V1δ (x ) ≥
v1δ (x  −∞) > 0 > v1δ (x  +∞) ≥ V1δ (x ). The continuity of V1δ (x̄1 ) in x̄1 then
ensures existence of a solution x∗1 ∈ (x  x ) to V1δ (x∗1 ) = 0.
Next, consider t ≥ 2. For any given x̄t−1 , a similar argument ensures the existence of x ∈ R such that Vt δ (x̄t−1  x ) ≤ vtδ (x  x̄t−1  +∞) < 0. Moreover,
there also exists x ∈ R such that either it is the case that Vt δ (x̄t−1  x ) ≥ 0 or
Vt δ (x̄t−1  xt ) < 0 for all xt ∈ R. In the former case, the continuity of Vt δ (x̄t−1  xt )
in xt ensures the existence of x̄t ∈ (x  x ) such that Vt δ (x̄t−1  x̄t ) = 0. In the latter case, vtδ (x; x̄t−1  −∞) ≤ vtδ (x; x̄t−1  x) = Vt δ (x̄t−1  x) < 0 for any x ∈ R and
therefore at x̄t = −∞, Vt δ (x̄t−1  −∞) ≡ limx→−∞ vtδ (x; x̄t−1  −∞) ≤ 0. We conclude that there exists a sequence {x∗t }∞
t=0 that satisfies conditions (ii) and (iii)
in the proposition.
Q.E.D.
√
√
This can be seen by noting that the ratio of the densities ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 )/ βt + αφ( βt + α ×
(θ − (βt x + αz)/(βt + α))) is increasing in θ.
28

752

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

PROOF OF THEOREM 3: We prove the result in four steps. Step 1 uses the
structure of beliefs and payoffs to establish that Vt δ converges pointwise to Vt 0
as δ → 0. Steps 2 and 3 then use this pointwise convergence of payoffs to prove
the result by induction: Step 2 proves that the result holds for T = 1, while
Step 3 proves that if the result holds for T = T − 1, then it holds also for
T = T.
Step 1: First, note that for any t ≥ 1, any x̄t ∈ R, and any θ = θ̄t (x̄t ),

(16)

lim p (θ; x̄t ) = p (θ; x̄t ) ≡
δ→0

δ
t

0
t

1 if θ ≤ θ̄t (x̄t ),
0 if θ > θ̄t (x̄t ).

This implies that for any t ≥ 2, any x̄t−1 ∈ R
(17)

t−1

, and any θ,

lim ψδt (θ; x̄t−1 ) = ψ0t (θ; x̄t−1 )
δ→0

if θ ≤ θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ),
 0 √
√
αφ( α(θ − z))
≡
 otherwise,

√
1 − ( α(θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ) − z))

and hence limδ→0 ψδt (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) = ψ0t (θ|x; x̄t−1 ) for any x ∈ R. Using (16),
Lebesgue’s dominated convergence theorem implies that at t = 1, for any
x̄1 ∈ R,
lim V1δ (x̄1 ) = lim
δ→0

δ→0

 +∞
−∞

pδ1 (θ; x̄1 ) dΨ1δ (θ|x̄1 ) − c

= Ψ (θ̄1 (x̄1 )|x̄1 ) − c
0
1

= U(θ̄1 (x̄1 ); −∞ β1  α z) ≡ V10 (x̄1 )
Similarly, by (16) and (17), for any t ≥ 2, and any (x̄t−1  x̄t ) ∈ R
that
δ

t−1

lim Vt (x̄
δ→0

 x̄t ) = lim
δ→0

 +∞
−∞

t−1

× R, we have

pδt (θ; x̄t ) dΨtδ (θ|x̄t ; x̄t−1 ) − c

= Ψt0 (θ̄t (x̄t )|x̄t ; x̄t−1 ) − c
= U(θ̄t (x̄t ); θ̄t−1 (x̄t−1 ) βt  α z) ≡ Vt 0 (x̄t−1  x̄t )
We next prove the result by induction.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

753

Step 2: Consider first T = 1 and fix an arbitrary ε > 0. From the strict
monotonicity of V10 (x̄1 ),29
V10 (x∗1 − ε) > 0 > V10 (x∗1 + ε)
By the convergence of V1δ to V10 as δ → 0, we can find δ1 (ε) > 0 such that for
any δ < δ1 (ε),
V1δ (x∗1 − ε) > 0 > V1δ (x∗1 + ε)
From the continuity of V1δ (x̄1 ) in x̄1 for any δ > 0, it follows that there exists a
solution xδ1 to V1δ (x1 ) = 0 such that x∗1 − ε < xδ1 < x∗1 + ε. Following the same
steps as in the proof of existence in Proposition 5, we can then construct an
δ
∗
equilibrium {xδt }∞
t=1 for Γ (δ) such that |x1 − x1 | < ε. This proves the result for
T = 1.
Step 3: Consider next an arbitrary T ≥ 2, fix ε > 0, and suppose the result
holds for T − 1. We seek to prove that the result holds also for T . In doing
so, we distinguish two cases: (a) the case that x∗T > −∞ and (b) the case that
x∗T = −∞.
Step 3(a). Take first any equilibrium of Γ (0) such that x∗T > −∞. By the
(local) strict monotonicity of VT0 around x∗T implied by the assumption that
/ arg maxx VT0 (x∗T −1  x), there exists εT < ε such that either
x∗T ∈
VT0 (x∗T −1  x∗T − εT ) > 0 > VT0 (x∗T −1  x∗T + εT )
or
VT0 (x∗T −1  x∗T − εT ) < 0 < VT0 (x∗T −1  x∗T + εT )
Without loss of generality, assume the first case: the argument for the other
T −1
and the
case is identical. From the continuity of VT0 (xT −1  xT ) in xT −1 ∈ R
fact that the result holds for T − 1, there exists some εT ∈ (0 εT ) such that
for any δ < δ(εT  T − 1), there is a sequence xδT −1 that satisfies the following
three conditions30 :
[C1] For all t ≤ T − 1, either xδt = −∞ and Vt δ (xδt ) ≤ 0 or xδt ∈ R and
Vt δ (xδt ) = 0.
[C2] For all t ≤ T − 1, |x∗t − xδt | < εT < ε if x∗t ∈ R and xδt < −1/εT < −1/ε
if x∗t = −∞.
This follows from the monotonicity of U(θ; −∞ β1  α z) in θ—which in turn is implied by
√
β1 ≥ α2 / 2π—and the monotonicity of θ̄1 (x̄1 ) in x̄1 .
30
Continuity of V 0 implies existence of εT such that [C3] holds for any xδT −1 that satisfies [C2];
that the result holds for T − 1 then ensures that for any δ < δ(εT  T − 1), there exists xδT −1 that
satisfies both [C1] and [C2].
29

754

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

[C3] In period T ,
VT0 (xδT −1  x∗T − εT ) > 0 > VT0 (xδT −1  x∗T + εT )
Next, by the convergence of VTδ (xT −1  xT ) to VT0 (xT −1  xT ) for any (xT −1  xT ) ∈
T −1
R
× R, there exists δT ∈ (0 δ(εT  T − 1)) such that for any δ < δT , there
is xδT −1 that satisfies [C1], [C2] and the following condition
[C3 ] In period T ,
VTδ (xδT −1  x∗T − εT ) > 0 > VTδ (xδT −1  x∗T + εT )
By the continuity of VTδ (xδT −1  xT ) in xT , for the same xδT −1 , there exists an
xδT ∈ R with |x∗T − xδT | < εT < ε that solves VTδ (xδT −1  xδT ) = 0.
Step 3(b). Next, take any equilibrium of Γ (0) such that x∗T = −∞. Recall
that for any t ≥ 2, Vt 0 (x∗t−1  xt ) = −c < 0 for all xt < x̃t , where x̃t > −∞ solves
θ̄t (x̃t ) = θ̄t−1 (x∗t−1 ) ≡ maxτ≤t−1 θ̄τ (x∗τ ). Pick some xT ∈ (−∞ min{−1/ε x̃T }).
From the continuity of VT0 (xT −1  xT ) in xT −1 and the fact that the result holds
for T −1, there exists some ε ∈ (0 ε) such that for any δ < δ(ε  T −1), there is
a sequence xδT −1 that satisfies conditions [C1] and [C2] (replacing εT with ε )
and such that the following condition is satisfied:
[C4] In period T , VT0 (xδT −1  xT ) < 0.
By the pointwise convergence of VTδ to VT0 , there also exists a δT ∈ (0 δ(ε  T −
1)) such that for any δ < δT , there is xδT −1 that satisfies [C1] and [C2] and such
that the following condition holds:
[C4 ] In period T , VTδ (xδT −1  xT ) < 0.
If, for the same xδT −1 , there exists an xT ∈ (−∞ xT ) such that VTδ (xδT −1 
xT ) ≥ 0, then, by the continuity of VTδ (xδT −1  xT ) in xT ∈ R, there is also
an xδT ∈ R, with xT < xδT < xT < −1/ε, such that VTδ (xδT −1  xδT ) = 0. If
instead VTδ (xδT −1  xT ) < 0 for all xT ∈ (−∞ xT ), then xδT = −∞ satisfies
VTδ (xδT −1  −∞) ≤ 0.31
Finally, recall that (8) admits at most finitely many solutions in every t and
therefore the set of xT ∗ that can be part of an equilibrium of Γ (0) is finite.
Hence, there is δ(ε T ) ∈ (0 δ(ε T − 1)) such that for any δ < δ(ε T ) and
∗
/ arg maxx Vt 0 (x∗t−1  x) for all
every equilibrium {x∗t }∞
t=1 of Γ (0) for which xt ∈
δT
t ≤ T , there exists x such that for all t ≤ T , if x∗t ∈ R, then |xδt − x∗t | < ε
and Vt δ (xδt ) = 0, and if x∗t = −∞, then xδt < −1/ε and Vt δ (xδt ) ≤ 0. From the
same arguments used to prove existence in Proposition 5, we conclude that xδT
is part of an equilibrium {xδt }∞
Q.E.D.
t=1 for Γ (δ), which completes the proof.
REFERENCES
ABREU, D., AND M. BRUNNERMEIER (2003): “Bubbles and Crashes,” Econometrica, 71, 173–204.
[716]
31

This follows from the same argument used in the proof of Proposition 5.

DYNAMIC GLOBAL GAMES

755

ANGELETOS, G.-M., C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN (2006): “Signaling in a Global Game: Coordination and Policy Traps,” Journal of Political Economy, 114, 452–484. [715,731]
(2007): “Supplement to ‘Dynamic Global Games of Regime Change: Learning, Multiplicity, and the Timing of Attacks’,” Econometrica Supplementary Material, 75, http://www.
econometricsociety.org/ecta/supmat/5604extensions.pdf. [733,735,736,743]
ANGELETOS, G.-M., AND I. WERNING (2006): “Crises and Prices: Information Aggregation, Multiplicity and Volatility,” American Economic Review, 96, 1721–1737. [715,719]
ATKESON, A. (2001): “Discussion on Morris and Shin,” in NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000,
ed. by B. S. Bernanke and K. S. Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 161–170. [712]
BRONER, F. (2005): “Discrete Devaluations and Multiple Equilibria in a First Generation Model
of Currency Crises,” Working Paper, University Pompeu Fabbra. [730]
CARLSSON, H., AND E. VAN DAMME (1993): “Global Games and Equilibrium Selection,” Econometrica, 61, 989–1018. [712]
CHAMLEY, C. (1999): “Coordinating Regime Switches,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114,
869–905. [716]
(2003): “Dynamic Speculative Attacks,” American Economic Review, 93, 603–621. [716]
CHARI, V. V., AND P. KEHOE (2003): “Hot Money,” Journal of Political Economy, 111, 1262–1292.
[716,733]
CORSETTI, G., B. GUIMARAES, AND N. ROUBINI (2005): “International Lending of Last Resort
and Moral Hazard: A Model of IMF’s Catalytic Finance,” Journal of Monetary Economics, 53,
441–471. [712]
DASGUPTA, A. (2006): “Coordination and Delay in Global Games,” Journal of Economic Theory,
forthcoming. [716]
EDMOND, C. (2005): “Information Manipulation, Coordination and Regime Change,” Working
Paper, Stern School of Business, NYU. [712,715]
FRANKEL, D., AND A. PAUZNER (2000): “Resolving Indeterminacy in Dynamic Settings: The Role
of Shocks,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 115, 283–304. [716]
GIANNITSAROU, C., AND F. TOXVAERD (2003): “Recursive Global Games,” Working Paper, Universidade Nova de Lisboa and Hebrew University of Jerusalem. [716]
GOLDSTEIN, I. (2005): “Strategic Complementarities and the Twin Crises,” Economic Journal,
115, 368–390. [716]
GOLDSTEIN, I., AND A. PAUZNER (2004): “Contagion of Self-Fulfilling Financial Crises Due to
Diversification of Investment Portfolios,” Journal of Economic Theory, 119, 151–183. [716]
(2005): “Demand Deposit Contracts and the Probability of Bank Runs,” Journal of
Finance, 60, 1293–1328. [711]
HEIDHUES, P., AND N. MELISSAS (2006): “Equilibria in a Dynamic Global Game: The Role of
Cohort Effects,” Economic Theory, 28, 531–557. [716]
HELLWIG, C. (2002): “Public Information, Private Information and the Multiplicity of Equilibria
in Coordination Games,” Journal of Economic Theory, 107, 191–222. [723]
HELLWIG, C., A. MUKHERJI, AND A. TSYVINSKI (2006): “Self-Fulfilling Currency Crises: The
Role of Interest Rates,” American Economic Review, 96, 1770–1788. [715]
KRUGMAN, P. (1979): “A Model of Balance-of-Payments Crises,” Journal of Money, Credit, and
Banking, 11, 311–325. [730]
LEVIN, J. (2001): “A Note on Global Games with Overlapping Generations,” Working Paper,
Stanford University. [716]
MILGROM, P. (1981): “Good News and Bad News: Representation Theorems and Applications,”
Bell Journal of Economics, 12, 380–391. [750]
MORRIS, S., AND H. S. SHIN (1998): “Unique Equilibrium in a Model of Self-Fulfilling Currency
Attacks,” American Economic Review, 88, 587–597. [711,712,714]
(1999): “A Theory of the Onset of Currency Attacks,” in Asian Financial Crisis: Causes,
Contagion and Consequences, ed. by P.-R. Agénor, M. Miller, D. Vines, and A. Weber. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 230–264. [715,730]

756

G.-M. ANGELETOS, C. HELLWIG, AND A. PAVAN

(2001): “Rethinking Multiple Equilibria in Macroeconomics,” in NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000, ed. by B. S. Bernanke and K. S. Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
139–161. [712,714,723,745]
(2003): “Global Games—Theory and Applications,” in Advances in Economics and
Econometrics, 8th World Congress of the Econometric Society, ed. by M. Dewatripont, L. Hansen,
and S. Turnovsky. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 56–114. [712,719,723,741,
745]
(2004): “Coordination Risk and the Price of Debt,” European Economic Review, 48,
133–153. [712]
OBSTFELD, M. (1996): “Models of Currency Crises with Self-Fulfilling Features,” European Economic Review, 40, 1037–1047. [714,730]
ROCHET, J.-C., AND X. VIVES (2004): “Coordination Failures and the Lender of Last Resort: Was
Bagehot Right after All?” Journal of the European Economic Association, 6, 1116–1147. [712]
TARASHEV, N. (2005): “Currency Crises and the Informational Role of Interest Rates,” Discussion Paper, Bank of International Settlements. [715]

