C OMMUNICATION I N G LOBAL G AMES :
T HEORY AND E XPERIMENT∗
A LA AVOYAN†
February 13, 2024

Abstract
Communication is introduced as a strategic choice in a regime change coordination game with
incomplete information. There exists a communication equilibrium, in which agents act more aggressively and take on the regime more often than they would without communicating. The effects
of communication are two-fold: (i) increases the rate of coordinated attacks, and (ii) reduces futile
attempts on the regime, thus reducing wasted cost. The experimental results demonstrate that communication reduces miscoordination; however, the subjects are not as strategic with their messages
as theory predicts, and therefore, they fail to increase their payoffs. This result demonstrates how
the effects of communication differ in an environment with incomplete information, contrasting
with the overwhelming experimental evidence indicating communication benefits in coordination
games with complete information.
JEL Classification: C71, C73, C92, D74;
Keywords: global games, communication, cheap-talk, strategic uncertainty, coordination, experiment.

∗

I thank Andrew Schotter for his continuous support on this project. I am grateful to Dilip Abreu, Miguel A. Ballester,
Guillaume Fréchette, Frank Heinemann, Alessandro Lizzeri, Elliot Lipnowski, Erik Madsen, Laurent Mathevet, Keith
O’Hara, Paula Onuchic, David Pearce, João Ramos, Debraj Ray, Ennio Stacchetti, Michal Szkup, Séverine Toussaert, Isabel
Trevino, Nikhil Vellodi, Basil Williams, and Sevgi Yuksel for helpful conversations and suggestions. I gratefully acknowledge
financial support from the Center for Experimental Social Science (CESS) at New York University (NYU).
†
Department of Economics, Indiana University. E-mail: aavoyan@iu.edu

1

1

Introduction

As a society, we consistently face situations where we require to coordinate our actions. Many of these
settings can be considered a regime change game in which participants can disrupt an existing status
quo but only if a large number of individuals coordinate their actions. For example, authoritarian political regimes can be toppled, but only if enough people join a protest. Currency can be devalued,
but only if a sufficiently large number of speculators attack it. A well-established structure to examine
these phenomena is global games wherein there is a breakdown in common knowledge and individuals
have private information about the state of the world.1 This paper builds on research in global games by
introducing the possibility that individuals communicate before considering an action. Such communication can occur in multiple circumstances, e.g., in political crises, people use social media to indicate
their intention to protest. During currency crises, banks issue statements about their plans. Recently,
retail investors2 used a discussion platform to coordinate a successful short squeeze3 of a GameStop
Corp. stock that led to a ‘once-in-a-decade’ stock price spike. Furthermore, for all these examples,
the involved parties are not committed to their communicated intentions, thus making this interaction
cheap-talk.
This study introduces communication as a strategic choice between similarly informed participants
in a standard two-person global game setting. Binary message space is considered,4 where agents can
send one of the two messages implying an intention to either join the regime change or abstain. There
exists a communication equilibrium that preserves the structure of the global game and can improve the
agents’ welfare.5 Two types of inefficiencies are present in global games. First, individuals coordinate
on the risk-dominant as opposed to the payoff-dominant equilibrium. Second, individuals may miscoordinate, thus leading to unnecessary costs. The communication equilibrium induced by cheap-talk
communication can improve the welfare by reducing both types of inefficiencies. Interestingly, however, communication leads to an overreaction in some instances. Agents attack the regime more than if
they had acted based on their combined full information. Communication swings the types that would
like to join the regime change, but their information alone would not have been enough. These types
are on the fence; they get persuaded by a positive message from the other side that nudges them to join
1

For example, see Morris and Shin (1998, 2002) and Corsetti et al. (2004) for currency attacks; Goldstein and Pauzner
(2005) and Rochet and Vives (2004) for bank runs; Dasgupta (2007) for delayed FDI investments; Corsetti et al. (2006) and
Zwart (2007) for debt crises; Edmond (2013) for information manipulation by the regime; and Angeletos et al. (2007), Chassang (2010), and Mathevet and Steiner (2013) for a more dynamic setting. Heinemann et al. (2004, 2009) find experimental
support for certain theoretical predictions.
2
A retail investor is an individual, non-professional investor who trade securities via brokerage firms or savings accounts.
3
Rapid increase in the price of a stock primarily because of an excess of short selling rather than underlying fundamentals.
4
Note that while focusing on binary messages may seem restrictive, it mimics the expression of sharing intentions about
choices in our daily lives. We are more likely to share our intended action than we are to state all the pieces of information
that lead us to lean toward taking that action. Alternative message space is examined later in the paper, and the experiment examines whether intention sharing naturally arises in the environment where information can be shared directly. See Appendix
B for more details.
5
There exists an uninformative (babbling) equilibrium in which agents ignore the messages; in this case, the actions are
the same as those in a game without communication.

2

the cause.
There are two stages in this environment: the communication stage, in which agents interact, and
the actions stage, in which agents join the regime change or abstain. The communication equilibrium involves threshold strategies in the communication stage, where an agent states the willingness
to participate in an attack if the private information exceeds a threshold. Intuitively, when the agents’
messages agree, actions follow the messages. If there is a disagreement, the magnitude of signals becomes important. If an agent sends a message with an intention to attack and the other agent disagrees,
two things can happen: If the agent’s private information is extremely strong, the agent will go through
the message and single-handedly take on the regime. However, if the agent’s private information is not
so extreme, they will abstain from attacking despite their stated intention to attack. Communication
equilibrium results in an unusual and intriguing outcome in which even after reporting a plan to attack,
agents may not follow their message, and it is part of an equilibrium. The message conveying the
intention to attack is more of a “maybe” message.
The overall welfare implications of communication depend on the side that we consider. Suppose
we examine the consequences of communication from the viewpoint of the central bank that may
want to keep the currency peg intact; then, communication is not beneficial because it increases the
probability of coordinated attacks. Consider political protests: if we evaluate communication from the
viewpoint of protesters, it is beneficial. However, a dictator who wants to stay in power will want
to prevent and obstruct communication because it increases the probability of a successful revolution.
This is a phenomenon we see in different parts of the world where the government tailors access to the
internet, or bans access to certain social media outlets. In conclusion, the theory illuminates whether
and when the consequences of communication are beneficial and to which side.
The theory provides specific predictions about the overall outcome of introducing communication
in this environment. Moreover, the theory prescribes a map of how the agents should react to different
configurations of messages—this aspect of the theory is less commonly reported in the literature. That
is, when cheap talk is introduced into coordination games with complete information, the effects of
it often depend on additional refinements. The theories on how agents should react to heterogeneous
messages are still few and require additional research.6 In this study, the communication equilibrium
has an easy map for agents. If the messages agree, the agents simply follow through with corresponding
actions. If the messages disagree, the agent with the negative message follows through with the intention, whereas the other one re-evaluates his intention in a simple manner: if the evidence is extremely
strong (i.e., the signal is greater than the threshold), attack the status quo or otherwise abstain.
In the second part of the study, the model predictions are examined in a lab experiment. The experiment is additionally intriguing since all thresholds in the model are numerically calculated. Hence,
the agent’s behavior in the lab and theory can be compared on both overall and individual point levels.
6

Blume (1998) reasons that communication results in the selection of a more salient equilibrium if all players communicate
homogeneously, agreeing on an equilibrium. The results in Blume (1998) are obtained with the condition that messages have
a priori informational content (AIC condition). See also, Farrell (1988) and Aumann (1990) for definitions of self-committing
and self-signaling messages, respectively, which are argued to lead to credible communication.

3

This study presents a new statistical result that allows relatively straightforward calculation of all
required thresholds in the experiment. In the action-taking stage, the agent has to combine two qualitatively different pieces of information. The agent has their point signal about the state of the world
and an intention from the agent. The latter indicates an interval information: the other agent’s signal
was either above or below a threshold. Note, this is not an interval information about the true state of
the world, that would lead to truncating the prior distribution. This interval information is based on the
signal realization of the other agent. Combining these point and interval signals leads to a new result,
which, in turn, results in more precise thresholds for the experiment.
The purpose of the experiment reported in this paper is twofold. First, the experiment provides a
test of the number of predictions arising from the theory. The experiment examines whether the ability
to communicate affects the subjects’ strategies and consequently their payoffs. Second, the experiment
examines whether binary communication with intention sharing arises even when a richer message
space is available to subjects. Let us describe the treatments in the experiment.
For the control treatment, which replicates the baseline game without communication, subjects
observe a private signal about the true state of the world and then decide between two alternatives:
attack or abstain.7 Then we have communication treatments. In the first communication treatment,
the communication protocol follows an intuitive structure that comes from the equilibrium. In this
treatment, called the letter-messages treatment, subjects are allowed to send one of the two letters
corresponding to their two actions. The experimental data demonstrate that the vast majority of subjects
use the communication protocol to convey information. Moreover, what is even more encouraging, the
subjects use threshold strategies to transmit information. In the communication equilibrium described
in the theory section, as per information exchange, if individuals agree on an intended action, they
should follow through with their initial intentions. Experimental data provide strong supports for these
qualitative features of the equilibrium. If both subjects agree on an intended action, they follow through
with their intentions in >99% of cases. However, the subjects set much more demanding cutoff levels
than those theoretically predicted. The thresholds they use to send a message are highly conservative
and are similar to the threshold they would use in the action stage in the absence of communication.
Hence, participants state what action they would have taken in the absence of communication, and they
miss out on the payoff improvement via threshold reduction.
Additional treatments are considered to examine whether restricting communication to two messages is the reason behind the lack of benefit of communication in this environment. In the second
communication treatment, number-messages treatment, after subjects observe their private signal (a
number), they can send any number message. In this treatment, the subjects need to identify certain
common language using numbers to signal their intentions to the other subject. Although this treatment
allows transmitting more information, the task becomes difficult without commonly understood messages. Hence, the number-and-letter treatment is introduced. This treatment allows subjects to send
both a number and a letter (intended action). Although from the equilibrium perspective, the ability
7

In the experiment, we use neutral action labels, A and B, to avoid any confounding effects of charged language.

4

to send a letter message is redundant, the treatment is introduced because, behaviorally, it may help
clarify a subject’s intended action.
The communication treatments reduce the miscoordination observed in the control treatment; however, the aggregate effect of communication on payoffs is not statistically significant. This evidence
goes against the beneficial effects of communication in coordination games with complete information,
thus highlighting the disruption of communication benefits in the environment where communication
transmits information and does not simply confirm the intentions. While experimental data provide
strong support for the qualitative features of the communication equilibrium, the agents are far from
the theoretical predictions. Agents communicate to convey their intentions, and they do not consider
the strategic information contained in their message. Additional research with open-chat discourse or
more structured interaction can be implemented to observe whether agents become more strategic with
their messages.

2

Related Literature

This study introduces communication as a strategic choice between similarly informed participants in
global games. The possible effects of introducing cheap talk among agents in global games were briefly
discussed in Morris and Shin (2003), page 71. Besides this short discussion, communication in global
games has been overlooked; the “top-down” approach is adopted when considered. In this approach,
additional information is provided via a public signal either directly or through a public choice.8 The
communication incentives in this study differ from an environment where one policy-maker communicates to all agents or an environment in which the communication combines two signals, thus resulting
in an action based on common information, as in ? or Shadmehr and Bernhardt (2017). The communication equilibrium described in this study is the partially informative one in which the messages are
intuitive and correspond to intended actions.
This study contributes to the literature on communication in coordination games with incomplete
information. Baliga and Morris (2002) studied one-sided communication in a two-player, two-state
game where the cost of taking a risky action can be high or low. One player is completely informed and
can send a cheap-talk message to the other player who has a low cost of attacking. The authors report
that the complete revelation of the cost type cannot be supported in equilibrium, similar to the intuition
of communication in the battle of the sexes game as discussed in Banks and Calvert (1992). In Baliga
and Morris (2002), unlike the global games’ structure, the agents’ types are not correlated. In their
setting, assuming the independence of types can be a valid assumption, whereas, in the global games
environments, the underlying fundamental state is important for all the sides involved. The assumption
of type independence results in a non-monotonic communication equilibrium, as reported in Example
4 of Baliga and Morris (2002) and in Baliga and Sjöström (2004). In both of these studies, the high
8
Hellwig (2002) was the first to introduce public signals into the model of Morris and Shin (1998) and characterize the
equilibria in global games with public and private signals. For aggregating information through prices or interest rates, see
Angeletos et al. (2006), Hellwig et al. (2006) and Ozdenoren and Yuan (2008). For information manipulation through biased
media, see Edmond (2013). Chen et al. (2016) modeled a rumor as a public signal.

5

types mimic the messages of low types. This equilibrium can be sustained by exploiting the medium
types who care the most about coordination.9
Baliga and Sjöström (2012) expand on Baliga and Sjöström (2004) where a third-party public communication is introduced through an extremist who is either a “provocateur” or “pacifist.” Their work
considers binary messages and shows how this assumption is without loss of generality, unlike the current study, where a richer message space is reported to alter the equilibrium and welfare. If the third
party is a “hawkish extremist” and actions are strategic complements, the extremist’s messages can
increase the possibility of a conflict and decrease welfare. Evdokimov and Garfagnini (2018) experimentally examines the model considered in Baliga and Sjöström (2012). The experimental evidence
does not support the most informative or uninformative equilibrium. Evdokimov and Garfagnini (2018)
reported that third-party communication is not strategic.
Although a vast base of theoretical literature on global games exists, experimental literature on
this topic is considerably scarce.10 Heinemann et al. (2004, 2009) experimentally study a speculative
attack model under perfect and noisy private information. In contrast, Cabrales et al. (2007) test the
theory in more discrete state space and in a two-player setting. These studies demonstrate that subjects’
behavior is consistent with the theoretical predictions and that the vast majority of subjects use threshold
strategies. Cornand and Heinemann (2008) consider a combination of private and public signals and
two noisy public signals in another treatment. The case of one private and one public signal provides a
higher probability of an attack than two noisy public signals. Subjects seem to overreact to the public
signal when they observe a private one. Similar results were reported by Cornand and Heinemann
(2014) where subjects overweight the public signal. Duffy and Ochs (2012) examine a dynamic global
game and report no significant differences between the dynamic and static game thresholds.11
Qu (2013) experimentally examine the effect of endogenous information acquisition via market
prices (see the theoretical model in Angeletos and Werning (2006)). An additional treatment introduced
in the study is the cheap talk protocol, which is similar to the intention-sharing treatment in the current
study. In Qu (2013), an experimenter acted as a mediator, collecting the intentions to invest, and
reported back to the group the percentage of subjects that demonstrated interest in investing. The
experimental results show that informative equilibria occurred and that cheap-talk interaction improved
the coordination, which contrasts with the results reported in the current study.
Szkup and Trevino (2020) experimentally examine the costly information acquisition model of
Szkup and Trevino (2015).12 The paper demonstrates that subject behavior is consistent with the theo9

See Appendix D, where Example 4 of Baliga and Morris (2002) is modified to fit the environment studied in this paper.
The type of non-monotonic equilibria described in these papers does not exist in the current paper. Additionally, the monotonic equilibrium characterized in the current paper cannot be supported in their setting (see Baliga and Sjöström (2004),
page 360).
10
See Duffy (2008) for a survey of experimental work in macroeconomics.
11
Shurchkov (2013) tested a two-period version of the model in Angeletos et al. (2007), and their results provide support
for most theoretical predictions. The results show that knowledge about the survival of the status quo in the first stage
discourages an attack in the second stage.
12
See also, Trevino (2020) for a two-country model of contagion and corresponding experimental evidence.

6

retical predictions of a threshold strategy usage; however, subjects invest too much into acquiring precision of their signal in the information acquisition phase. In the experiment conducted in the present
study, the communication stage is added to the base game of Szkup and Trevino (2020), thus keeping
all the relevant parameters the same. This allows the comparisons of the control treatment in this study
with the control treatment in their study.
Extensive experimental studies on the effects of communication in coordination games with complete information are reported in the literature, and these studies demonstrate that cheap talk can facilitate coordination on an efficient equilibrium (for a critical survey, see Devetag and Ortmann (2007)).
Van Huyck et al. (1990) demonstrated that there is a strong tendency of play to diverge toward an inefficient risk-dominant equilibrium in the minimum-effort game; this result has motivated considerable
research, leading to a vast literature on this subject. Cooper et al. (1992) reported that with one-way
communication, the payoff-dominant equilibrium was selected more often in a 2 × 2 Stag and Hunt

game, but two-way communication does so to a greater extent. Blume and Ortmann (2007) tested the
effect of cheap-talk communication both in the minimum-effort and median games. They report that
messages facilitated high rates of convergence to the Pareto-dominant equilibrium.13 Unlike the literature, in this study, similar communication treatments failed to significantly improve payoffs. This result
may be attributed to the fact that coordination games with incomplete information have an additional
layer of difficulty. The messages provide the intention to play and information about the underlying
fundamental state. Additional research and experimental treatments need to be conducted to understand
nonstrategic communication in incomplete information coordination games.

3

The Model

This section first introduces the baseline game without any communication. Subsequently, the information sharing protocol is introduced. The framework for the underlying game is similar to the 2 × 2
model of global games introduced by Carlsson and Van Damme (1993) and advanced by Morris and
Shin (1998, 2002).

3.1

Baseline framework without communication

The state of the world is characterized by a fundamental θ ∈ Θ. In the example of the currency attack, θ

describes the net gain from a devaluation; in the example of regime overturning, θ describes the strength
of the government. Agents, indexed by i ∈ I = {1, 2}, are ex ante identical and simultaneously choose

between two actions: they can either attack the status quo (ai = 1) or refrain from attacking (ai = 0).
Thus, the action space for player i is Ai = {0, 1}. Let A := A1 × A2 . Attacking has a fixed cost of
c > 0, which can be interpreted as a direct transaction cost or the opportunity cost. The action ai = 1

is successful if the other agent selects to attack and θ > θ or if θ > θ̄; hence, the upper and lower
dominance regions for the fundamental are defined by θ and θ̄. An agent’s incentive to attack increases
13

See also Berninghaus and Ehrhart (2001), Burton and Sefton (2004), Devetag (2005), Charness (2000), Brandts and
Cooper (2006), Chaudhuri et al. (2009), Deck and Nikiforakis (2012), and Avoyan and Ramos (2022).

7

with the aggregate size of an attack; hence, the agents’ actions, ai , are strategic complements.
The payoffs can be summarized in a matrix form, as shown in Figure 1:

Attack
Not Attack

Success
θ−c
0

Failure
−c
0

Figure 1: Payoff Matrix
All agents start with a common prior for θ; they believe θ is drawn from a normal distribution with
mean θ0 and variance σθ2 .14 Each agent i receives a private signal xi = θ + σi εi , where xi ∈ Xi , and

εi ∼ N (0, 1) is a noise, which is independent and identically distributed across agents and independent
of θ. Given the realization of agent i’s signal, xi , the posterior distribution of θ is normally distributed
with mean θ̃i , and variance σ̃i2 , where θ̃ =

2 2
xi σθ2 +θ0 σi2
2 = σθ σi .
and
σ̃
2
2
2
i
σθ +σi
σθ +σi2

The game with the common knowledge of the state of the fundamental θ (complete information
game) serves as an intuitive baseline to the game with private information. For θ < θ, regime change
will not happen even if both agents attack; hence, the dominant strategy is to refrain from attacking
and to maintain the status quo. If θ ≥ θ, one agent selecting to attack is sufficient for abandoning the

status quo; hence, the dominant strategy is to attack. The case of interest is when θ ∈ [θ, θ̄), where two

pure-strategy equilibria are sustainable: (i) both agents attack, and the status quo is abandoned and (ii)
both agents refrain from attacking, and the status quo is maintained.
Carlsson and Van Damme (1993) demonstrate that the multiplicity of equilibria described above is
attributed to the complete information of the payoff function. If agents do not observe the true value of
θ but rather a noisy private signal of θ, there is a unique equilibrium. This equilibrium is characterized
by a symmetric threshold strategy such that agent i attacks the status quo if and only if the signal
realization is greater than a threshold x∗N C ; i.e., the agent i ∈ {1, 2} follows a symmetric threshold

strategy:


1,
ai (xi ) =
0,

iff xi ≥ x∗N C
iff xi < x∗N C

For the completeness of the baseline framework, the latent threshold x∗N C is solved. Let g(θ, x∗j )
be the payoff of agent i given θ, and let x∗j be the threshold of the other agent. The expected payoff of
agent i conditional on taking an attacking action is as follows:

E[g(θ, x∗j )|xi ] =

Zθ



θ Pr(xj ≥ x∗j |xi , θ) p(θ|xi )dθ +

θ

Z∞

θp(θ|xi )dθ − c

θ

Agent i will select to attack the status quo if and only if the expected payoff is ≥ 0, E[g(θ, x∗j )|xi ] ≥

0. To solve for an optimal threshold x∗N C , we only require to identify a signal for which agent i is
14

Alternatively, we can assume an improper uniform prior for θ on R and common public signal.

8

indifferent between attacking the status quo and refraining from attacking; i.e., E[g(θ, x∗j )|x∗N C ] = 0,
given the optimal threshold of agent j, x∗j . There exists a unique, dominance-solvable equilibrium in
which both agents use threshold strategies with cutoff x∗N C .

3.2

Cheap-talk communication

This section introduces communication with a binary message space into the baseline framework presented in Section 3.1. Without additional assumptions,15 the restriction to binary message space is with
loss of generality. This paper focuses on examining binary communication since it has an intuitive
interpretation of stating an intention to attack or not. Alternative message space is considered in the
appendix; see Appendix B.
Let the message space of agent i be Mi = {0, 1}. Once agent i has observed the private signal

xi ∈ Xi , he sends a message mi : Xi → Mi to the other agent before determining to either attack the
status quo or refrain from attacking, ai : Xi × M → Ai , where M = Mi × Mj . All messages are sent

and received simultaneously, and sending a message bears no cost (see a discussion on costly messages
in Appendix B.1). The timing of the entire game is detailed in Figure 2.
Nature Draws
The State θ

Players Send and
Receive Messages

Players Receive
Private Signals

Players Choose
to Attack or Not

Figure 2: Timing of the Game
There exists an uninformative equilibrium where the messages are ignored; however, the case of
interest is the existence of informative equilibria.
Theorem 1 Communication equilibrium
There exists a perfect Bayesian equilibrium, where
(i) in the communication stage player i sends a message mi (xi ), and
(ii) in the action stage player i takes an action ai (xi ; x∗C , I), where

1, if x ≥ x∗
i
C
mi (xi ) =
0, if x < x∗
i


1, if m = m = 1 or x ≥ x̄∗
i
j
i
ai (xi ; xC , I) =
0, o.w.
I = (mi , mj ), xi ∈ Xi , and i 6= j.
15

For instance, see the discussion in Appendix B.2.

9

(1)

C

(2)

For all combinations of signal realizations (xi , xj ) ∈ R2 let us consider the outcomes of com-

munication under the informative equilibrium described in Theorem 1 (the proofs and details are in

Appendix A). Figure 316 summarizes the messages and actions, where 1 and 0 in the theorem correspond to A and N , representing “attack” and “not attack,” respectively. Note, not all combinations of
(xi , xj ) ∈ R2 are equally likely as the signals are drawn from the same normal distribution.

If both agents receive signals below the threshold x∗C , they then send a message not to attack; both

abstain from attacking in the action stage and maintain the status quo. Similarly, if both players receive
signals above the threshold x∗C , they send a message to attack, and they both attack. Thus, if agents
agree on an intended action, they follow through with their initial intentions.
Figure 3: Informative Equilibrium Messages and Actions
xj

xj
(N, A)
x̄∗
(N, A)

(A, A)

(A, A)

x∗C

x∗C
(N, N )

(N, N )

(A, N )
x∗C

xi

(A, N )

x∗C

(a) Messages Sent

x̄∗

xi

(b) Actions Taken

If the intended actions disagree, agents use a significantly more demanding cutoff. Consider the
case shown in Figure 3 where the realized signals are in the gray dotted areas. Area (A, N ) and (N, A)
are the case that one agent has a signal greater than x∗C , while the other has a signal less than x∗C .
Depending on the magnitude of the attack signal, the agent who received a no attack message may still
determine to unilaterally attack the status quo. In particular, agent i attacks the status quo if the realized
signal xi is greater than the threshold x̄∗ .
Note that if an agent’s message conveys an intention to not attack, that agent cannot be persuaded
to switch and attack in the action stage. The intuition behind the statement is that if an agent has
information as per which they would choose to attack if the other agent were to attack, this player
would have sent an attack message (“A”). An attack message (weakly) increases the probability of the
other agent following, and the expected payoff is higher. Hence, the communication threshold x∗C is
Note that, Figures 3, 4, and 5 are illustrative graphs and that certain thresholds are not to scale. In particular, x̄∗ is
considerably larger than the other thresholds. It is included in the graph to demonstrate all the possible regions. For the
experiment, e.g., while x∗C , xN C , and 2xF B are around 11, 28, and 34, respectively, x̄∗ is 178.
16

10

based on the most optimistic case where the other agent has positive information and is going to attack.
This intuition is at the heart of this communication equilibrium, and it gives us the first glimpse that
agents can be much more aggressive than they would be without communication in their attacking
actions as x∗C is less than the non-communication threshold x∗N C (for more on this, see Section 3.4).
Moreover, note that if the realized signal for agent i is less than x∗C , this agent will not attack
under any circumstance, and this agent’s payoff is 0 regardless of the action of the other agent. This
indifference makes the messages for xi < x∗C easily malleable. In addition to making communication
equilibrium possible with binary messages, this indifference can be leveraged when the message space
is richer. In the latter case, the indifference can be used to select the most informative equilibrium
within the type of equilibria considered (see the discussion in Appendix B.3).

3.3

Combining point and interval signals

There are two stages in this environment: the communication stage in which agents interact, and the
action stage in which the agents join the regime change or abstain. An agent at the second stage of
the game—i.e., the action stage—has two pieces of information. One piece of information is the point
signal xi ∈ R that he privately received and the message from the opponent of the intention to take one

or the other action. A positive message from the opponent indicates that the signal, xj , is higher than
the communication threshold (xj ≥ x∗C ), and a negative message implies the opposite, i.e., the signal

is below the threshold (xj < x∗C ). The agent has to combine a point signal that he fully observes and
an interval signal resulting from the opponent’s point signal. To my knowledge, this study presents the
first documentation of the resulting distribution of θ given such a combination of signals.
Recall that the agent i’s information set is (xi , mj ), where xi |θ ∼ N (θ, σi2 ) and mj |θ ∼ Bern(1 −

q(θ)) with q(θ; x∗C , σj2 ) = Φ(x∗C ; θ, σj2 ). The following lemma presents the result (see Appendix A.1
for details, proofs, and additional information about the distribution).
Lemma 1 If the prior for θ is N (θ0 , σθ2 ), the posterior distribution of θ is an extended skew-normal
distribution, with density
1 1
φ
p(θ|xi , mj ) =
Φ(τc ) ωc
where
ξc =



θ − ξc
ωc



 p

θ − ξc
2
Φ τc 1 + αc + αc
ωc

σi2 θ0 + σθ2 xi
σi2 σθ2
2
,
ω
=
c
σi2 + σθ2
σi2 + σθ2

and
α
αc = q
1 + σi2 /σθ2
s
1 + α2
α(θ0 − xi )
p
τc = τ
+
.
2
1 + αc
σi (1 + σθ2 /σi2 ) 1 + αc2

11

In the abbreviated form, this distribution can be written as ESN (ξc , ωc , αc , τc ).
For any distribution ESN (ξc , ωc , αc , τc ), ξc is referred to as the location parameter; ωc is the scale
parameter; αc is the slant parameter; and τc is the truncation parameter. Using Lemma 1, the posterior
mean and variance are calculated and are given by the following expressions:



φ(τc )
φ(τc )
2
2
2 φ(τc )
τc +
,
(δc ωc ), σ = ωc 1 − δc
µ = ξc +
Φ(τc )
Φ(τc )
Φ(τc )
respectively, where δc := √ αc 2 .
1+αc

3.4

Outcomes with and without communication

To evaluate the effects of communication under the informative equilibrium characterized in Theorem
1, let us first examine the changes in the outcomes. Figure 4 shows the equilibrium outcomes with and
without communication. The left panel shows that after receiving private signals, xi and xj , agent i and
agent j take an attack action if and only if their private signals are greater than x∗N C . Because there is
no communication, the actions are solely based on their own private signals. If both signals are greater
than x∗N C , both players attack and successfully abandon the status quo. Similarly, if both signals are
less than x∗N C , both players choose not to attack, and the status quo is maintained. Finally, suppose
only one agent attacks and the other does not. In that case, we get mismatched actions, represented by
the gray regions in the left panel (the success of a single-handed attack depends on the true underlying
value of the fundamental).
Figure 4: Outcomes Without and With communication
xj

xj
(N, A)
(N, A)

x̄∗

(A, A)

x∗N C

(A, A)

x∗N C

(N, N )

x∗C

(A, N )

(N, N )

x∗N C

xi

x∗C

(a) Without Communication

(A, N )
x∗N C

x̄∗

xi

(b) With Communication

The right panel of Figure 4 shows the equilibrium outcomes of the game with communication.
Recall that x∗C is found by assuming that the other agent has good information (xj ≥ x∗C ) and that

they will attack with probability 1. Therefore, x∗C < x∗N C . Two primary types of changes arise
12

from communication: (i) switches from (N, N ) outcome to (A, A) outcome, and (ii) switches from
(A, N ) and (N, A) outcomes to either (A, A) or (N, N ) outcomes. If the realized signals are in the
region [x∗C , x∗N C ) × [x∗C , x∗N C ), without communication the outcome will be (N, N ). However, the

outcome is (A, A) with communication. Let us focus on the area [x∗N C , ∞) × [0, x∗N C ) where, without
communication, the outcome is (A, N ). The addition of communication divides this area into three

regions. Communication enables coordination on “attack” and “not attack” actions, for which the
actions were mismatched in the absence of communication. Note that the area [x̄∗ , ∞) × [0, x∗C )

remains miscoordinated (the first indication that this communication equilibrium is not the first-best
outcome).

Up until now, we discussed the outcomes with and without communication. Now, the question is,
how does the communication equilibrium described in Theorem 1 compare to the first-best outcome?
The first-best outcome in this model will be to combine the two-point signals of the agents and attack
if the expected payoff conditional on the combined information is greater than 0 and abstain from
attacking otherwise.
Figure 5: First-best vs. Communication Outcomes
xj

xj
(N, A)
(A, A)

2x∗F B

2x∗F B
(A, A)

(N, N )
(N, N )

2x∗F B

xi

(A, N )
2x∗F B

(a) First-best outcome

xi

(b) Communication outcome

Due to the uncertain nature of θ and signals, even the first best solution is not free of Type I and Type
II errors. Here, we say that a Type I error (i.e., false positive) occurs if both agents attack when they
should not have attacked, i.e., true θ was in the “no attack” dominant region. As a result, both agents
paid the cost but received no gain from it. Furthermore, we say that a Type II error (false negative)
occurs if both agents abstain from an attack when they should have attacked, i.e., true θ was not in the
“no attack” dominant region, and if both agents attacked, they would gain a positive payoff. To obtain
a sense of how these errors evolve with or without communication compared to the first-best case, let
us consider a numerical example. The second part of this study includes an experiment, and we use
the parameters from the experiment and compare the three outcomes by considering Type I and Type

13

II errors.
No Communication

Communication

First-best

4.4%
9.8%

2.4%
2.0%

1.6%
1.8%

Type I Error
Type II Error

Table 1: Numerical Comparison
Table 1 summarizes the results of Type I and Type II errors for three cases. The data were simulated
using the parameters in the experiment, and 500 draws of θ, and the corresponding two signals for each
agent. Without communication, in 9.8% of the time, players missed out on attacking when a successful
attack would have been possible; with communication, this type of error decreased to 2% of that in
the case without communication. Similarly, the occurrence of false attacks for which players pay the
cost of attacking but receive no gain decreased from 4.4% to 2.4%. As reported, the first-best outcome
exhibits both types of errors, and the rates are similar to ones in the intention communication case.
It is worth noting that one can suspect more Type I errors under communication than under no
communication. This could be hypothesized since under communication agents are more aggressive
and attack the regime more often. However, although the agents in the case with communication are
more aggressive, their decisions are based on better information, thereby leading to lower error rates
overall.

4

Experimental design

The experimental sessions were conducted at the Center for Experimental Social Science (CESS) laboratory at New York University (NYU), using the software z-Tree (Fischbacher (2007)). Participants
were recruited from the general population of NYU students using hroot Bock et al. (2014). There was
a total of 14 sessions with 172 subjects. All the treatments included 20 to 25 groups each. The experiment lasted about 50 min, and on average, subjects earned $21 that included a $10 dollar show-up fee.
In each session, written instructions were distributed to the participants and read aloud.17
The experiment involved four different treatments. Participants were randomly divided into pairs in
each treatment, and this assignment was fixed throughout the experiment. Each pair faced 50 independent and identical rounds. All subjects had to choose between two alternatives in each round, namely,
A and B. Before the participants made their A/B choice, they received a private signal about the true
state X, a random variable that affected the payoff structures of both players. The parameters used
were similar to those adopted by Szkup and Trevino (2020). In particular, the current study’s control
treatment was identical to exogenous medium precision level treatment in Szkup and Trevino (2020).
For all these treatments, the true state X is randomly drawn from a normal distribution with a
mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 50. This randomization is performed once; it is used in every
treatment. This selection ensures that the differences between treatments are attributed to changes
17

The instructions provided in the experiment can be found in Appendix D.

14

in communication protocols and are not precedents because of the particular order of realized values
of X. The coordination region for which two pure-strategy equilibria are sustainable under complete
information is [0, 100). All subjects receive a private signal randomly drawn from a normal distribution
centered at the true value of X and has a standard deviation of 10. Choosing action A always bears a
cost of 18 points, thus effectively making the coordination interval [18, 100).
The first treatment in the experiment was the control treatment, T0 , where the participants observed
their private signal and then proceeded to make their A/B choice. Once both participants in a pair
made their selection, the round was over, and they received feedback. The participants observed the
realization of X in this round, their own private signal realization, the choice made by them and by the
other member of the pair, and the individual payoff in the round. Note that no communication or any
sort of interaction was allowed in the control treatment. All other treatments in the experiment involved
a specific type of communication.
In the intention-sharing treatment, TI , once the subjects have observed their private signals but
before they make their final decisions, they can send a message that can only be a letter mL ∈ {A, B}.

These messages can be interpreted as “I’m going to choose the alternative

.” In the signal-sharing

treatment, TS , once the participants observed their private signals about the true state X, but before
they made their final decisions, they sent a message to each other. This message could be any number
mN ∈ R and were interpreted as “My signal is

.” The message-sending stage was simultaneous;

once both participants in a pair received the other’s message, they could proceed and decide between
the alternatives A and B. The round was over when both subjects made their A/B choice.
In the third communication, intention-and-signal-sharing treatment, TI&S , once the subjects ob-

served their private signals, but before they made their final decisions, they could send a message that
could be any number mN ∈ R and a letter mL ∈ {A, B}. These messages can be interpreted as “My

signal is

” and “I’m going to choose the alternative

,” respectively. Providing a letter message

in addition to the number message is theoretically redundant. In equilibrium, when a player sends a
number message, what that number indicates in terms of intended action is apparent. However, the
effect, experimentally, is not trivial.
Treatments

Communication

Message Space

T0
TS
TI
TI&S

None
Cheap Talk
Cheap Talk
Cheap Talk

—
Signals
Actions
Signals and Actions

Table 2: Experimental Design
For all communication treatments, TS , TI , and TI&S , the end-of-the-round feedback consists of
the realized value of X, the participant’s own signal realization, the message sent and received, the
choice made by the participant and the other member, and the individual payoff in the round. After
50 rounds, subjects took a short survey and received their final payment that included the show-up fee

15

and the average of five rounds of the payoffs randomly selected from all 50 rounds (survey results are
summarized in Appendix C).
Table 2 summarizes the experiment treatments, communication protocols, and the message space
available to the subjects.

5

Experimental Results

This section presents the results of the experiment. First, it is established that the vast majority of
subjects use threshold strategies both in the communication and action stages. Second, the message-toaction map is examined, and the data strongly supports the predictions. Then, quantitative thresholds
are presented and compared to the theoretical predictions. Finally, the overall effects of all treatments
are compared in terms of the levels of miscoordination and final payoffs. Despite the strong evidence
that subjects follow threshold strategy reasoning and correctly update their actions based on the message profile, the overall effect of communication on payoffs is not statistically significant.

5.1

Use of threshold strategies

We say that a behavior is consistent with a threshold strategy if a subject uses a perfect or almost perfect
threshold strategy. An example of a perfect threshold strategy usage is presented in Figure 6a, in which
the alternative N is selected for the low realizations of signals and A is selected for the high realizations
of signals with exactly one switching point. In Figure 6a, for signals less than 40, the subject selects
an action N (ai = 0 on the graph), whereas for signals above 40, the subject selects A (ai = 1 on the
graph). We say that a subject uses an almost-perfect threshold strategy if the threshold rule admits a
few errors—more precisely, if the overlap is less than three signals.18 For example, Figure 6b provides
an example of an almost-perfect threshold strategy with the overlap of two signal realizations.
Figure 6: Threshold strategy examples

Action

Almost Perfect Threshold Strategy

Action

Perfect Threshold Strategy

-100

0

100

-100

Signal

0

100

200

Signal

(a) Perfect Threshold Strategy

(b) Almost Perfect Threshold Strategy

Result 1 summarizes the data.19 (For the breakdown of this result by treatment and periods, see
Table 5 in Appendix C.)
18

The classification is similar to the one given by Szkup and Trevino (2020).
The calculations for binary messages are based on treatment TI , i.e., the letter part of treatment TI&S . The calculations
for the action stage include all treatments. In the analyses, the last 25 rounds were considered.
19

16

Result 1 Among the participants, 98.28% used threshold strategies in the binary-message communication stage, and 99.01% used threshold strategies in the action stage.
The data provide strong evidence of the usage of threshold strategies in both stages: when sending
a binary message and during the action stage.20 Note that threshold strategies are robust in that even
if a participant believes that the other participant is using a threshold strategy or is randomizing, the
best response is still a threshold strategy. Now that we have established a strong use of the threshold
strategies, we can examine the mapping from messages to actions.

5.2

Mapping from messages to actions

According to the equilibrium described in Section 3.2 if the messages sent by both agents in a pair
agree, the follow-up actions should be the intended actions. Figure 7 shows the transition of all possible
message pairs to actions for the treatment TI . The experimental results strongly support the theoretical
prediction: if both agents send the message A or if both send the message N , the outcome is (A, A) or
(N, N ), respectively, > 99% of the time. This result shows that the message-to-action behavior of the
agents is highly consistent with the theoretical predictions.

Message Pair

Action Pair
A, A

A, N / N, A

N, N

A, A

99

1

0

A, N
N, A

12.6

37

50.4

N, N

0

0

100

Figure 7: Transition matrix for treatment TI
Theoretically, a disagreement in the messages should lead to either switching to not attacking or
following through on their communicated intentions if the positive signal is extremely strong. Based
on experimental parameters, we should see zero values in the elements of the transition matrix when
(A, N ) turns into anything except (N, N ).21 Disagreements in messages result in all possible outcomes, but the largest portion of the outcomes of > 50% correspond to the (N, N ) action pair.
Result 2 The subjects closely follow the message-to-action mapping of communication equilibrium.
20
This result is consistent with previous literature, see Heinemann et al. (2004), Cornand and Heinemann (2014), and
Szkup and Trevino (2020).
21
If one agent sends the message not to attack, the other player should attack if their private signal is > 178.24. Because
the realized private signals and corresponding messages were never in that range, the second line of the transition matrix
should be 0%, 0%, 0%, and 100%.

17

Thus far, we have seen strong evidence supporting the qualitative theoretical predictions. Now, we
consider the quantitative predictions of the threshold levels.

5.3

Estimating thresholds

To estimate the thresholds for all subjects who use threshold strategies, a logistic distribution is fitted
to each subject’s data and then averaged to obtain the aggregate results. The threshold is interpreted as
a signal for which there is a 50% chance of choosing the either alternative. Recall that the cumulative
distribution function (CDF) of the logistic distribution is given by
Pr(A) =

1
1 + exp(a − bxi )

with parameters a ∈ R and b > 0.

Following Heinemann et al. (2004), the ratio a/b can be interpreted as the mean threshold. The
√
standard deviation of the threshold estimate, π/(b 3), can be interpreted as a measure of coordination.
Table 3 lists the experimental and theoretical thresholds for sending binary messages and the estimated
thresholds for taking an attack action. For the action stage, the table provides unconditional thresholds
(i.e., the thresholds calculated using all of the data) and conditional thresholds (i.e., the thresholds are
conditional on matching messages).
First, note that in the control treatment with no communication, the numerical threshold is 28.31.
Table 3 highlights that the experimental threshold in T0 is 26.84, and it is statistically indistinguishable
from the prediction of 28.31. This evidence agrees with the theoretical predictions. Now, recall that
the threshold used to send a binary message should be identical to that used to attack in the action
stage because the other player is attacking. Thus, the following conjecture is related to how consistent
the players are with setting their message and action thresholds and whether they use the same cutoff
for both decisions. There is no evidence to reject the hypothesis that the experimental estimates in the
communication stage are equal to conditional thresholds in the action stage (a Wilcoxon signed-rank
test, which is a pairwise nonparametric test, cannot reject the hypothesis at the 5% significance level);
hence, we arrive at the next result.
Result 3 The communication and action thresholds are statistically indistinguishable.
Thus far, all the examined theoretical predictions have strong experimental support. However, this
is not true in the case of the communication and conditional action threshold in TI . In this case, the
signal threshold is more than twice the theoretically predicted level for the communication and action
stages. The subjects are not as aggressive as the theory predicts, and they send an attack message more
conservatively.
Theoretically, threshold reduction is achieved by considering the communication stage strategically. If an individual has information according to which they will choose to attack if the other person
were to attack, they will send a message that they intend to attack. This reasoning drives the threshold for sending the attack message down. Note that this payoff-improving outcome results from the
18

Table 3: Estimated and Theoretical Thresholds
Treatments

Communication Stage
Experimental Theoretical

T0

—

—

Unconditional

Action Stage
Conditional

Theoretical

26.84

—

28.31

28.66

25.80

11.47

(3.855)

(0.752)

(1.653)

25.62

TI

11.47

(3.214)

individuals’ strategic behavior in the communication stage, stating that they intend to attack even when
they are unsure whether they will follow through. The participants instead seem to follow a simple
heuristic when sending a message in the experiment. The thresholds they use to send a message are
similar to those used in the action stage in the absence of communication. Hence, they state what they
would have done without communication, and they miss out on the payoff improvement from threshold
reduction.
Result 4 The communication and action thresholds are significantly higher than the theoretical predictions.
Let us evaluate the experimental effects of communication in all three communication treatments
by examining the frequency of miscoordination and overall payoffs. First, consider miscoordination—
subjects selecting different actions. For all these treatments, Figure 8 shows the frequency of mismatched actions. The miscoordination in all communication treatments is less than that in the control
treatment. Moreover, the ability to share a signal and an intention, while theoretically redundant, leads
to the lowest level of misscoordination in TI&S .
Figure 8: Frequency of Miscoordination

Frequency of (A,N)s

0.075

0.050

0.025

0.000

Control

Intention

Signal

Intention & Signal

Treatments

Table 4 displays the mean payoffs in experimental currency units for each treatment and the results
of the binary hypothesis testing of the control treatment versus all other communication treatments
(the p-values are adjusted using Bonferroni correction for multiple hypotheses testing). Interestingly,
none of the communication treatments, TS ,TI , or TI&S , have a significantly different average payoff
19

compared to the control treatment. While participants take advantage of communication by achieving
greater coordination and less miscoordination, they do not reduce the attack thresholds as theoretically
predicted and make numerous Type II errors (missed opportunities of success—i.e., the subjects could
have succeeded if they both attacked but they did not).
Table 4: Average Payoffs
Treatments

T0

TS

TI

TI&S

T0

69.91

∼ 70.00

∼ 70.75

∼ 69.31

(−0.114)

(−2.298)

(0.465)

Note: ∗ p < 0.05, ∗∗ p < 0.01, ∗∗∗ p < 0.001. Welch t-statistic in parentheses.

Result 5 The communication treatments reduce misscoordination. The payoffs in control and all communication treatments are statistically indistinguishable.
Allowing agents to send cheap-talk messages corresponding to the actions is known to be effective
in coordination games with complete information (see, e.g., Blume and Ortmann (2007)). However,
there are no statistically significant differences for a similar one-stage communication treatment in
the coordination game with incomplete information, as studied in this work. Further treatments with
more elaborate interactions may be required for the coordination games with incomplete information
to achieve results similar to those for coordination games with complete information.

5.4

Communication strategies in a richer message space

This section examines communication in TS treatment. We examine numeric messages and classify
them into four types: truth-telling, partition, mixed, and babbling. Figure 9 depicts the different strategy
types on a graph where the x-axis is received signals, the y-axis is sent messages, the gray area depicts
the coordination region, and the black line is the 45-degree line. The top part of Figure 9 presents the
percentage of those types.

0

50

100

150

Signal

(a) Truth-telling

2.5%

Message

Message

Message

37.5%

-100

0

Message

20%

40%

0

100

50

100

Signal

Signal

(b) Partition

(c) Mixed

150

0

50

100

150

Signal

(d) Babbling

Figure 9: Sample Message Strategies
If a player sends a message within five points of the true value in 45 out of 50 rounds, we classify
this behavior as truth-telling and label the subject a truth-telling type. This situation is depicted in
20

Figure 9a. Consistent with the literature on information transmission in cheap-talk games, a fraction of
the players truthfully report their private information. Although the truth-telling levels in the current
paper are sizably smaller than the most papers.22 We find that 60% of subjects employ strategies in
which the full information is not revealed (even with somewhat conservative truth-telling definition).
If a subject partitions the signals into two messages for most of the 50 rounds, we refer to this
subject as a partition type. For example, Figure 9b shows the behavior of one subject classified as
a partition type; this player used the number 150 to indicate high signals and −150 to indicate low
signals. In the number-message treatment, TS , 20% of the players reported a common language to
signal intentions to the other player in the pair (some players used 1 and 2, others employed large and
small numbers such as 150 and −150 to indicate their intention for alternatives A and N , respectively).
It is worth emphasizing how sophisticated this behavior is, which is why number and letter treatment
was introduced in the first place.
Figure 9c shows a case of partial truth-telling or, as we classify them, mixed types. These types
inform the truth for certain values of the realized signal; however, in other regions, they either partition
or babble.23 Finally, we have babbling types that send messages that seem to be unrelated to the underlying signals, as shown in Figure 9d. Only 2.5% of the subjects exhibit babbling behavior, providing
strong support for the informative equilibria.
Overall, we observe a consistent use of communication to share intentions and information. Interestingly, however, truth-telling is not as common in this environment compared to other games reported
in the literature; in previous works, the vast majority of messages were observed to be fully revealing.
Moreover, the effects of communication on payoffs are not universal for all types. The truth-telling
group performs worse than the partition or mixed groups. Hence, the overall effect of communication
is type-dependent.

6

Conclusion

Communication is a natural aspect of the environments modeled by global games, and it is essential to
consider the effects of it. Moreover, understanding the possible consequences of communication are
now more vital than ever because of the ubiquitous access and use of discussion platforms and social
media.24 In particular, this paper has focused on specific communication: intention sharing. In our
everyday lives, we routinely share our intentions, whether in person or on social media, and whether
it be about our possible vacation options or voting intentions. Often, we state our intended choices
22

See, for example, Cai and Wang (2006), where the authors implemented a cheap-talk game from Crawford and Sobel
(1982) in the lab. Similar results on truth-telling were observed in other studies: Blume et al. (1998, 2001), Evans III et al.
(2001), Gneezy (2005), and Sánchez-Pagés and Vorsatz (2007). For more examples, see Zak (2008). Few studies provided
evidence of strategic information concealment, e.g., Agranov and Schotter (2013, 2012) demonstrated that a vast majority
of subjects refrains from truth-telling, particularly in a disagreement region, where the leader and followers face potential
conflicts of interest. In general, the authors reported that vague or ambiguous language improves coordination in a region
where preferences are misaligned.
23
The mixed types considered in this work are similar to the A and C types in Agranov and Schotter (2013).
24
Even traders and investors keep a close eye and use such tools, for example, Bloomberg chat (an instant messaging tool
available to traders, investors, and other market participants with a Bloomberg Terminal).

21

rather than the information on which these choices are based. Even considering that some reasoning
is included, it is uncommon to see all the information that made someone lean toward one decision
against another. Sometimes, it is even difficult to determine all pieces of information that lead to a
specific choice.
The experimental data in this study agree with the qualitative features of the intention-sharing
equilibrium. There is strong evidence that the players closely follow the map from the messages to
actions even if the quantitative thresholds are different from the theoretical ones. For example, if both
the players agree on an intended action, they follow through in over 99% of the cases. However,
the effect of communication on payoffs is statistically insignificant. Additional research in the area
can shed light on the subtleties and intricacies involved in the coordination game with incomplete
information compared to the case of the coordination game with complete information.
During January 2021, an unusual activity hit the financial market. The saga that unfolded on Wall
Street was the first. The GameStop Corp. (GME) stock purchases abruptly grew, and the price started
fluctuating accordingly. This event was a result of a coordinated actions by a large number of small
retail investors. Several aspects of this phenomenon fit well into the setting described in the current
study. There is uncertainty about the “strength” of certain hedge funds that held short positions on the
GME, and hence, there is uncertainty about the number of shares required and the wait time for the
“success”25 of the retail investors. One particularly fascinating aspect about this event with regard to
the scope of this study is the use of a message board for this coordinated attack. The communication
between the participants is primarily performed via a subreddit, /r/WallStreetBets, on a social platform
called Reddit.26 Several users with a large number of shares of the GME stock posted daily screenshots
of their portfolios. Usually, these posts demonstrated an intention not to sell these shares; although
these posts were pure cheap talk, they seem to have affected small (retail) investors. The ability to
share intentions to buy and then maintain the shares of GME for an indeterminate amount of time led
to a successful coordination that resulted in several “once-in-a-decade” stock price spikes. Even after
stabilization, the price was ten times that before this coordinated attack. While there was undoubtedly
an exchange of information on the state of hedge funds that held short sells of GME stocks, among
other information, most of the exchange on this platform was about an intention to maintain the stocks
or to possibly buy more if feasible.
The example of the GME short squeeze emphasizes the ability of a large number of individuals to
realize a shared action with the simple ability of intention sharing. Indeed, this is a simplification of the
environment, and many other reasons contributed to the event; however, it is clear that this event would
not have occurred without a platform that brought together thousands of people who do not know each
other and are still primarily anonymous.

25

The “success” refers to the successful execution of a short squeeze. Numerous individual retail investors and several
hedge funds lost a considerable amount of money.
26
Reddit is a content/news sharing and discussion website. A subreddit is a specific online community with posts associated
with that specific topic. Subreddits are denoted by /r/, followed by the subreddit’s name, e.g., /r/WallStreetBets.

22

References
Agranov, Marina and Andrew Schotter, “Ignorance is bliss: an experimental study of the use of
ambiguity and vagueness in the coordination games with asymmetric payoffs,” American Economic
Journal: Microeconomics, 2012, 4 (2), 77–103.
and

, “Language and government coordination: An experimental study of communication in the

announcement game,” Journal of Public Economics, 2013, 104, 26–39.
Angeletos, George-Marios and Iván Werning, “Crises and prices: Information aggregation, multiplicity, and volatility,” The American economic review, 2006, 96 (5), 1720–1736.
, Christian Hellwig, and Alessandro Pavan, “Signaling in a global game: Coordination and policy
traps,” Journal of Political economy, 2006, 114 (3), 452–484.
,

, and

, “Dynamic global games of regime change: Learning, multiplicity, and the timing of

attacks,” Econometrica, 2007, 75 (3), 711–756.
Aumann, Robert, “Nash equilibria are not self-enforcing,” Economic Decision Making: Games,
Econometrics and Optimisation, 1990, pp. 201–206.
Avoyan, Ala and Joao Ramos, “A road to efficiency through communication and commitment,” Available at SSRN 2777644, 2022.
Azzalini, Adelchi, The skew-normal and related families, Vol. 3, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
Baliga, Sandeep and Stephen Morris, “Co-ordination, spillovers, and cheap talk,” Journal of Economic Theory, 2002, 105 (2), 450–468.
and Tomas Sjöström, “Arms races and negotiations,” The Review of Economic Studies, 2004, 71
(2), 351–369.
and

, “The strategy of manipulating conflict,” The American Economic Review, 2012, 102 (6),

2897–2922.
Banks, Jeffrey S and Randall L Calvert, “A battle-of-the-sexes game with incomplete information,”
Games and Economic Behavior, 1992, 4 (3), 347–372.
Berninghaus, Siegfried K and Karl-Martin Ehrhart, “Coordination and information: Recent experimental evidence,” Economics Letters, 2001, 73 (3), 345–351.
Blume, Andreas, “Communication, risk, and efficiency in games,” Games and Economic Behavior,
1998, 22 (2), 171–202.
and Andreas Ortmann, “The effects of costless pre-play communication: Experimental evidence
from games with Pareto-ranked equilibria,” Journal of Economic theory, 2007, 132 (1), 274–290.
23

, Douglas V DeJong, Yong-Gwan Kim, and Geoffrey B Sprinkle, “Experimental evidence on the
evolution of meaning of messages in sender-receiver games,” The American Economic Review, 1998,
88 (5), 1323–1340.
,

,

, and

, “Evolution of communication with partial common interest,” Games and Economic

Behavior, 2001, 37 (1), 79–120.
Bock, Olaf, Ingmar Baetge, and Andreas Nicklisch, “hroot: Hamburg registration and organization
online tool,” European Economic Review, 2014, 71, 117–120.
Brandts, Jordi and David J Cooper, “Observability and overcoming coordination failure in organizations: An experimental study,” Experimental Economics, 2006, 9 (4), 407–423.
Burton, Anthony and Martin Sefton, “Risk, pre-play communication and equilibrium,” Games and
Economic Behavior, 2004, 46 (1), 23–40.
Cabrales, Antonio, Rosemarie Nagel, and Roc Armenter, “Equilibrium selection through incomplete information in coordination games: an experimental study,” Experimental Economics, 2007,
10 (3), 221–234.
Cai, Hongbin and Joseph Tao-Yi Wang, “Overcommunication in strategic information transmission
games,” Games and Economic Behavior, 2006, 56 (1), 7–36.
Carlsson, Hans and Eric Van Damme, “Global games and equilibrium selection,” Econometrica:
Journal of the Econometric Society, 1993, pp. 989–1018.
Charness, Gary, “Self-serving cheap talk: A test of Aumann’s conjecture,” Games and Economic
Behavior, 2000, 33 (2), 177–194.
Chassang, Sylvain, “Fear of miscoordination and the robustness of cooperation in dynamic global
games with exit,” Econometrica, 2010, 78 (3), 973–1006.
Chaudhuri, Ananish, Andrew Schotter, and Barry Sopher, “Talking Ourselves to Efficiency: Coordination in Inter-Generational Minimum Effort Games with Private, Almost Common and Common
Knowledge of Advice*,” The Economic Journal, 2009, 119 (534), 91–122.
Chen, Heng, Yang K Lu, and Wing Suen, “The power of whispers: A theory of rumor, communication, and revolution,” International economic review, 2016, 57 (1), 89–116.
Cooper, Russell, Douglas V DeJong, Robert Forsythe, and Thomas W Ross, “Communication in
coordination games,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1992, 107 (2), 739–771.
Cornand, Camille and Frank Heinemann, “Optimal degree of public information dissemination,”
The Economic Journal, 2008, 118 (528), 718–742.

24

and

, “Measuring agents’ reaction to private and public information in games with strategic

complementarities,” Experimental Economics, 2014, 17 (1), 61–77.
Corsetti, Giancarlo, Amil Dasgupta, Stephen Morris, and Hyun Song Shin, “Does one Soros make
a difference? A theory of currency crises with large and small traders,” The Review of Economic
Studies, 2004, 71 (1), 87–113.
, Bernardo Guimaraes, and Nouriel Roubini, “International lending of last resort and moral hazard: A model of IMF’s catalytic finance,” Journal of Monetary Economics, 2006, 53 (3), 441–471.
Crawford, Vincent P and Joel Sobel, “Strategic information transmission,” Econometrica: Journal
of the Econometric Society, 1982, pp. 1431–1451.
Dasgupta, Amil, “Coordination and delay in global games,” Journal of Economic Theory, 2007, 134
(1), 195–225.
Deck, Cary and Nikos Nikiforakis, “Perfect and imperfect real-time monitoring in a minimum-effort
game,” Experimental Economics, 2012, 15 (1), 71–88.
Devetag, Giovanna, “Precedent transfer in coordination games: An experiment,” Economics Letters,
2005, 89 (2), 227–232.
and Andreas Ortmann, “When and why? A critical survey on coordination failure in the laboratory,” Experimental economics, 2007, 10 (3), 331–344.
Duffy, John, “Macroeconomics: a survey of laboratory research,” Handbook of experimental economics, 2008, 2.
and Jack Ochs, “Equilibrium selection in static and dynamic entry games,” Games and Economic
Behavior, 2012, 76 (1), 97–116.
Edmond, Chris, “Information manipulation, coordination, and regime change,” Review of Economic
Studies, 2013, 80 (4), 1422–1458.
Evans III, John H, R Lynn Hannan, Ranjani Krishnan, and Donald V Moser, “Honesty in managerial reporting,” The Accounting Review, 2001, 76 (4), 537–559.
Evdokimov, Piotr and Umberto Garfagnini, “Third-party manipulation of conflict: an experiment,”
Experimental Economics, 2018, 21 (1), 27–49.
Farrell, Joseph, “Communication, coordination and Nash equilibrium,” Economics Letters, 1988, 27
(3), 209–214.
Fischbacher, Urs, “z-Tree: Zurich toolbox for ready-made economic experiments,” Experimental economics, 2007, 10 (2), 171–178.
25

Gneezy, Uri, “Deception: The role of consequences,” The American Economic Review, 2005, 95 (1),
384–394.
Goldstein, Itay and Ady Pauzner, “Demand–deposit contracts and the probability of bank runs,” the
Journal of Finance, 2005, 60 (3), 1293–1327.
Heinemann, Frank, Rosemarie Nagel, and Peter Ockenfels, “The theory of global games on test:
experimental analysis of coordination games with public and private information,” Econometrica,
2004, 72 (5), 1583–1599.
,

, and

, “Measuring strategic uncertainty in coordination games,” The Review of Economic

Studies, 2009, 76 (1), 181–221.
Hellwig, Christian, “Public information, private information, and the multiplicity of equilibria in coordination games,” Journal of Economic Theory, 2002, 107 (2), 191–222.
, Arijit Mukherji, and Aleh Tsyvinski, “Self-Fulfilling Currency Crises: The Role of Interest
Rates,” The American Economic Review, 2006, pp. 1769–1787.
Mathevet, Laurent and Jakub Steiner, “Tractable dynamic global games and applications,” Journal
of Economic Theory, 2013, 148 (6), 2583–2619.
Morris, Stephen and Hyun Song Shin, “Unique equilibrium in a model of self-fulfilling currency
attacks,” American Economic Review, 1998, pp. 587–597.
and

, “Social value of public information,” American Economic Review, 2002, pp. 1521–1534.

and

, “Global Games: Theory and Applications in Advances in Economics and Econometrics

(Proceedings of the Eighth World Congress of the Econometric Society),” Cambridge, England:
Cambridge University Press (2003), 2003, 56, 114.
Ozdenoren, Emre and Kathy Yuan, “Feedback effects and asset prices,” The journal of finance, 2008,
63 (4), 1939–1975.
Qu, Hong, “How do market prices and cheap talk affect coordination?,” Journal of Accounting Research, 2013, 51 (5), 1221–1260.
Rochet, Jean-Charles and Xavier Vives, “Coordination failures and the lender of last resort: was
Bagehot right after all?,” Journal of the European Economic Association, 2004, 2 (6), 1116–1147.
Sánchez-Pagés, Santiago and Marc Vorsatz, “An experimental study of truth-telling in a sender–
receiver game,” Games and Economic Behavior, 2007, 61 (1), 86–112.
Shadmehr, Mehdi and Dan Bernhardt, “When Can Citizen Communication Hinder Successful Revolution?,” Quarterly Journal of Political Science, 2017, 12 (3), 301–323.
26

Shurchkov, Olga, “Coordination and learning in dynamic global games: experimental evidence,” Experimental Economics, 2013, 16 (3), 313–334.
Szkup, Michal and Isabel Trevino, “Information acquisition in global games of regime change,”
Journal of Economic Theory, 2015, 160, 387–428.
and

, “Sentiments, strategic uncertainty, and information structures in coordination games,”

Games and Economic Behavior, 2020, 124, 534–553.
Trevino, Isabel, “Informational channels of financial contagion,” Econometrica, 2020, 88 (1), 297–
335.
Van Huyck, John B, Raymond C Battalio, and Richard O Beil, “Tacit coordination games, strategic
uncertainty, and coordination failure,” The American Economic Review, 1990, 80 (1), 234–248.
Zak, Paul J, “Values and value: Moral economics,” 2008.
Zwart, Sanne, “The mixed blessing of IMF intervention: Signalling versus liquidity support,” Journal
of Financial Stability, 2007, 3 (2), 149–174.

27

Appendices
A

Proofs and Details

This section provides additional details and proofs of the results presented in this study and all the
intermediate results that have been omitted from the main body of the paper.
This sections is organized as follows. Section A.1 presents more derivations and proofs for combining two types of signals under threshold communication strategy. Then the action stage is solved.
Finally, Section A.2 establishes communication stage results.
The section proceeds by defining the binary message communication equilibrium.
Definition 1 Communication strategy x∗C , action strategy a∗ , and belief rule p, form a pure strategy
symmetric perfect Bayesian equilibrium if
[i] For any xi ∈ Xi ,
Z

x∗C (xi ) ∈ arg max
u(a(xi ; (m(xi ), m−i ), a−i ; θ)p(θ|xi , I)dθ
m∈Mi
θ∈Θ
[ii] For a given m ∈ Mi ,
∗

a (xi ; I) ∈ argmax

Z

u(a, a−i ; θ)p(θ|xi , I)dθ

a∈Ai

θ∈Θ

[iii] p is obtained by Bayes rule
p(θ|xi , I) = R
Θ

where

and

p(xi , I|θ)p(θ)
,
p(xi , I|θ)p(θ)dθ


1, if x ≥ x
i
C
m(xi ) =
0, o.w.

(3)


1, if (x ≥ x ∧ x ≥ x ) ∨ (x ≥ x̄)
i
j
i
C
C
a(xi ; I) =
0, o.w.

(4)

I ∈ Mi × Mj , I1 = (m, 1), I0 = (m, 0) and i ∈ I, i 6= j.

28

A.1

Combining Binary and Continuous Signals

A.1.1

Preliminaries and proofs

For the babbling equilibrium, because there is no information conveyed by the messages, the posterior
distribution will coincide with the one in the baseline framework of Section 3.1. Hence, different
communication stage strategy could lead to distinct posterior distribution. Let us focus on symmetric
threshold strategies in communication stage and resulting posterior distribution and its properties.
Recall that, the state of the world θ is drawn from a normal distribution with mean θ0 and variance
σθ2 . The agent i’s private signal is drawn from a normal distribution with mean θ and variance σi2 . The
agent j’s signal is xj and player i receives a message mj :
x j = θ + εj σ j

1, if x ≥ x∗
j
C
.
mj =
0, if x < x∗
j

C

Hence, the distribution of mj is
mj ∼ Bern(1 − q(θ)),
where
1
q(θ) = √
2πσj

Z x∗

(y − θ)2
exp −
2σj2
−∞
C

!
dy

Lemma 2 The density of mj given θ can be written as
p(mj |θ) = Φ(ζj θ; ζj x∗C , σj2 )
where ζj := sgn(2mj − 1).
Proof. As mj is a Bernoulli-distributed random variable,
p(mj |θ) = (1 − q(θ))mj × q(θ)1−mj
where q(θ; x∗C , σj2 ) := Φ(x∗C ; θ, σj2 ). First, notice that Φ(x∗C ; θ, σj2 ) = 1−Φ(θ; x∗C , σj2 ). When mj = 1,
we have
p(mj = 1|θ) = Φ(θ; x∗C , σj2 )
When mj = 0:
p(mj = 0|θ) = Φ(x∗C ; θ, σj2 ) = Φ(−θ; −x∗C , σj2 )
Thus,
p(mj |θ) = Φ(ζj θ; ζj x∗C , σj2 )
where ζj := sgn(2mj − 1).
29

Lemma 3 The likelihood function of θ, with data (xi , mj ), is Extended Skew-Normal with parameters
ESN (Xi , σi , α, τ ), and density
p(θ) =

1 1
φ
Φ(τ ) σi



θ − xi
σi





θ − xi
Φ α0 + α
σi

where
α := ζj × σi /σj , α0 := ζj × (xi − x∗C )/σj , τ := √

α0
1 + α2

Proof. As xi and mj are conditionally independent, then, by Lemma 2,
p(xi , mj |θ) = φ(θ; xi , σi2 )Φ(ζj θ; ζj x∗C , σj2 )
As a function of θ,
p(θ|xi , mj ) ∝ φ(θ; xi , σi2 )Φ(ζj θ; ζj x∗C , σj2 )
α0
Let τ := √1+α
. Then
2

Thus

Z

φ(θ; xi , σi2 )Φ(ζj θ; ζj x∗C , σj2 )dθ = Φ(τ )

1 1
p(θ) =
φ
Φ(τ ) σi



θ − Xi
σi





θ − Xi
Φ α0 + α
σi

which is the pdf of an Extended Skew-Normal (ESN) distribution.
The likelihood is extended skewed normal with parameters ESN (Xi , σi , α, τ ), and the prior is
N (θ0 , σθ ).
Proof of Lemma 1. Lemma 3 establishes the likelihood function of θ. With a normal prior for θ,
the updating formulae in Azzalini (2013) is used. 

A.1.2

Mean and variance derivation

The moment generating function (eq 2.40, Azzalini (2013)):
M (t) := E {exp(ξt + σi Zt)} = exp(ξt + 0.5σi2 t)

Φ(τ + δσi t)
Φ(τ )

d
The mean is µ = dt
M (t)|t=0 . Let’s take the derivative


 Φ(τ + δσi t)
d
φ(τ + δσi t)
M (t) = exp(ξt + 0.5σi2 t2 ) ξ + σi2 t
+ exp(ξt + 0.5σi2 t2 )
(δσi )
dt
Φ(τ )
Φ(τ )
Evaluate at t = 0,
µ=

d
φ(τ )
M (t)|t=0 = ξ +
(δσi )
dt
Φ(τ )

30

When τ = 0
d
M (t)|t=0 = ξ +
dt

r

2
(δσi )
π

Note that, in our case, we actually have
Z

θφ(θ; Xi , σi )Φ(θ; x∗C , σj )dθ

which is missing the normalizing term Φ(τ ). Therefore,
Z

θφ(θ; Xi , σi )Φ(θ; x∗C , τj )dθ = Xi Φ(τ ) + φ(τ )δσi

Now for the variance. The second derivative of M (t):
d2
φ(τ )
φ(τ )
φ(τ )
M (t)|t=0 = ξ 2 + σi2 + ξ
(δσi ) + ξ
(δσi ) −
τ (δσi )2
2
dt
Φ(τ )
Φ(τ )
Φ(τ )
Then


2

2
d2
d
φ(τ )
φ(τ )
2
2
σ = 2 M (t)|t=0 −
M (t)|t=0 = σi −
τ (δσi ) −
(δσi )
dt
dt
Φ(τ )
Φ(τ )
2

or
σ

2

= σi2





φ(τ ) 2
φ(τ )
1−
δ τ+
Φ(τ )
Φ(τ )

When τ = 0:
σ

2

= σi2



1/(2π) 2
1−
δ
0.52

or
σ

2

= σi2





2 2
1− δ
π

Therefore, we say that θ with pdf
p(θ) =

1
φ(θ; Xi , σi )Φ(θ; x∗C , σj )
Φ(τ )

is a random variable with an extended Skew-Normal distribution, and parameters
p
α0
α := σi /σj , δ := α/ 1 + α2 , α0 := (Xi − x∗C )/σj , τ = √
1 + α2
which yields the standard notation of
1 1
φ
p(θ) =
Φ(τ ) ω



θ−ξ
ω

where ξ := Xi , ω := σi .

31



θ−ξ
Φ α0 + α
ω




Finally, the CDF. Using Eq. 2.49, Azzalini (2013):
Φ(x; α, τ ) = Φ(x) −

1
[H(x, τ ; α) − H(τ, x; α)]
Φ(τ )

where we have defined


p

H(y, z; α) = T y, α + y −1 z 1 + α2 − T y, y −1 τ
and T is Owen’s T -function:
T (h, a) =

1
2π

Z a
0

exp(−0.5h2 (1 + x2 ))
dx
1 + x2

An alternative representation using the bivariate normal distribution:
Φ(x; α, τ ) =
where

ΦB (x, τ ; −δ)
Φ(τ )

Z x Z y


φ(t)φ

ΦB (x, y; ρ) =
−∞

−∞

u + δt
√
1 − δ2


√

1
dudt
1 − δ2

Conditional on the other player’s message (mj = 0 or mj = 1) and communication threshold x∗C ,
we first assume that players follow a symmetric threshold strategy

1, if x ≥ x∗ (I)
i
ai (xi ; x∗C , I) =
0, if x < x∗ (I)

,

(5)

i

where I = (mi , mj ). Based on whether mj = 0 or mj = 1, x∗ (I) will be different. Hence, there are
two thresholds: the other player sent “attack” message, call it x∗ and the other player sent “no attack”
message, call it x̄∗ .
Equation 6 provides the expected payoff in the action stage for a player i choosing to attack conditional on information (xi , x∗C , I). In addition, player i assumes that player j follows a threshold
strategy x∗j (I).

Va (xi , x∗j ; x∗C , I) =

Zθ



θ Pr(xj ≥ x∗j |θ, xi , x∗C , I) p(θ|xi , x∗C , I)dθ +

θ

Z∞

θp(θ|xi , x∗C , I)dθ − c (6)

θ

where
p(θ|xi , x∗C , I) = R
Θ

p(xi , x∗C , I|θ)p(θ)
p(xi , x∗C , I|θ)p(θ)dθ

I ∈ Mi × Mj , xi ∈ Xi and i ∈ I, i 6= j. Next, the equilibrium of the action stage is defined.

32

(7)

Definition 2 Given messages m = (mi , mj ) and message thresholds x∗C = (m∗i , m∗j ) from the communication stage, an equilibrium in monotone strategies for the action stage of the game is a pure
strategy profile a∗ = (a∗i , a∗j ) and corresponding thresholds x∗ = (x∗i , x∗j ) such that x∗i solves
Va (x∗i , x∗j ; I) = 0,
where


1, if x ≥ x∗ (I)
i
i
a∗i (xi ; x∗C , I) =
0, if x < x∗ (I)
i

i

for all i ∈ I, i 6= j.
Conditional on the case of mj = 1 or mj = 0, x∗ := x∗i (I1 ) and x̄∗ := x∗i (I0 ) solve
Va (x∗ , x∗ ; x∗C , I1 ) = 0 and Va (x̄∗ , x̄∗ ; x∗C , I0 ) = 0,
where I1 = (·, 1) and I0 = (·, 0). The expected payoff of attack action with realized signal xi ,
conditional on mj = 1, aj = 1 and mj = 0, aj = 0, can be written as
Z∞
V1 =

θp(θ|xi , xi , I1 )dθ − c,

(8)

θp(θ|xi , xi , I0 )dθ − c,

(9)

θ

Z∞
V0 =
θ̄

where I1 = (·, 1) and I0 = (·, 0). Observe that both equations, (8) and (9), are bounded from below
by −c.

There exists a unique solution of the action stage of the game given a condition on the relative

informativeness of the private signal compared to the public signal. If σi /σθ is sufficiently small,
i.e., the private signal is sufficiently more precise than the public signal, then we obtain the following
proposition.
Proposition 1 There exists a unique, dominance solvable equilibrium of the actions stage of the game
√
in which player i ∈ I uses threshold strategies, characterized by (x∗ , x̄∗ ), if γ(σθ , σi ) > 2.
Action stage expected payoff can be written as follows:

∗

∗

V ((x̃ , x )|x∗C , I) =

Zθ̄

∗

θP r [xj ≥ x |θ, x∗C , I] p(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I)dθ +

θ

Z∞
θ̄

I = (m(x̃∗ ), m(x∗ )) ∈ M.
33

θp(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I)dθ − c

Posterior belief
p(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I) = R
Θ

p(x̃∗ , x∗C , I|θ)p(θ)
,
p(x̃∗ , x∗C , I|θ)p(θ)dθ

x̃∗ = x∗C solves V ((x̃∗ , x∗C )|I1 ) = c, where
∗

V ((x̃ , x∗C )|I1 ) =

Zθ̄

θ P r [xj ≥ x∗C |θ, x∗C , I1 ] p(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I1 )dθ +
{z

|

θ

Z∞
=

}

=1

Z∞

θp(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I1 )dθ − c

θ̄

θp(θ|x̃∗ , I1 )dθ − c

θ

x̃∗ = x̄∗ solves V ((x̃∗ , x∗C )|I0 ) = c, where
Zθ̄

∗

V ((x̃ , x∗C )|I0 ) =

θ P r [xj ≥ x∗C |θ, x∗C , I0 ] p(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I0 )dθ +
|

θ

Z∞
=

{z

=0

}

Z∞

θp(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I0 )dθ

θ̄

θp(θ|x̃∗ , x∗C , I0 )dθ

θ̄

Consider the case when I = I1 and symmetric action stage threshold is x∗
∗

∗

V ((x , x )|x∗C , I1 ) =

Zθ̄

∗

θP r [xj ≥ x |θ, x∗C , I1 ] p(θ|x∗ , x∗C , I1 )dθ +

θ

If the expression

Z∞

θp(θ|x∗ , x∗C , I1 )dθ − c

θ̄

dV ((x∗ ,x∗ )|x∗C ,I1 )
is always positive, there is a unique value of x∗ solving V (x∗ , x∗ |x∗C , I1 ) =
dx∗

0 and the unique strategy surviving iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies is a threshold rule
with a cutoff x∗ . Furthermore, because we know that V ((x∗C , x∗C )|x∗C , I1 ) = 0, we get the unique
cutoff x∗ = x∗C .
Lemma 4

dV ((x∗ ,x∗ )|x∗C ,I1 )
> 0.
dx∗

Proof.
dV ((x∗ , x∗ )|x∗C , I1 )
=
dx∗


Zθ̄ 
∂p(θ|x∗ , x∗C , I1 )
∂p(θ|x∗ , x∗C , I1 )
∗
∗
∗ ∗
θ P r [xj ≥ x |θ, xC , I1 ]
+ p(θ|x , xC , I1 )
dθ
∂x∗
∂x∗
θ

Z∞
θ

+

∂p(θ|x∗ , x∗C , I1 )
dθ
∂x∗

θ̄

34

≥

Z∞
θ̄

!
√
1
1 + α2
dθ
− 2
σj (1 + σθ2 /σi2 )
σi + σj2
|
{z
}
√
> 0, if γ(σi ,σθ )> 2

Z∞
+
θ̄



ζ
φ(τc )
p
Φ(τc ) 1 + αc2

c
1 + αc2 + αc θ−ξ
ωc )
p
ζ
c
Φ(τc 1 + αc2 + αc θ−ξ
ωc )

φ(τc

p

√

!
1 + α2
1
dθ
−
σi2 + σj2
σj (1 + σθ2 /σi2 )
{z
}
|
√
> 0, if γ(σi ,σθ )> 2


r(r2 + 1) √
σθ
γ(σi , σθ ) :=
> 2, where r := , then
σθ
σi

>0

A.2

Communication Stage

Based on the aforementioned results, let us turn to the communication stage:
Lemma 5 The communication strategy mi : Θ → Mi is a threshold rule.
Proof. Recall that mi : Xi → Mi , ai : Xi × M → Ai and ui : A × Θ → R, where M = Mi × Mj ,
A = Ai × Aj , for i ∈ I and i 6= j. The expected utility can be written as
Z
θ∈Θ

ai (xi ; (mi (xi ), m−i ))[θ(1{θ∈[θ,θ̄)} aj (xj ; (mi (xi ), m−i )) + 1{θ≥θ̄} ) − c]p(θ|xi , (mi (xi ), m−i ))dθ
(10)

Let ς = (m, a, p) be a symmetric pure strategy perfect Bayesian equilibrium. Take x1 and x2 ∈ Xi ,
such that x1 < x2 and mi (x1 ) 6= mi (x2 ) and let
Z

u(a(x2 ; (m(x2 ), m−i )), a−i ; θ)p(θ|x2 , (m(x2 ), m−i ))dθ ≥

(11)

θ∈Θ

Z
u(a(x1 ; (m(x1 ), m−i )), a−i ; θ)p(θ|x1 , (m(x1 ), m−i ))dθ
θ∈Θ

(The abovementioned conditions exclude the equilibria in which mi (xi ) = mi (xj ) for all xi , xj ∈

Xi . Because, we are looking for an informative communication strategy, where some information is
transmitted, the condition is without loss of generality.) Consider x3 ∈ Xi , such that x3 > x2 . Then,
because p(θ|x2 , I) > p(θ|x1 , I), for any I ∈ M and given equation 11, we obtain

P r(aj = 1|x2 , (m(x2 ), m−i )) ≥ P r(aj = 1|x1 , (m(x1 ), m−i ))

35

(12)

Then, equation 12 yields
Z

u(a(x3 ; (m(x2 ), m−i )), a−i ; θ)p(θ|x3 , (m(x2 ), m−i ))dθ ≥

(13)

θ∈Θ

Z
u(a(x3 ; (m(x1 ), m−i )), a−i ; θ)p(θ|x3 , (m(x1 ), m−i ))dθ

(14)

θ∈Θ

therefore, m(x3 ) = m(x2 ).

B

Costly and noisy messages and richer message space

B.1

Costly messages

Does the communication equilibria in the binary message case survive a small message cost? The answer is yes, with a small adjustment of the threshold. While introducing costly messages, the message
space is augmented with an empty message with no cost. That is, let M̃i = Mi ∪ {∅} and let mi = ∅ be

costless. The message cost does not influence the agents’ best responses, and the analysis is unchanged
up to the slight change of thresholds. Instead of the attacking cost of c, the consideration is as if the
cost was c + ε, where ε is the message cost.
The communication equilibrium described in the paper in binary message case provides a unique
outcome in the action stage; however, the communication stage can be slightly modified without affecting the equilibrium or its consequences. For example, consider some signal xN ∈ Xi , for which

player i will abstain from attacking irrespective of the received messages. Since messages are costless
and the final action is ai = 0, this player is indifferent between sending any message. Because of

that, we can construct the following equilibrium. For all signals xi ∈ Xi \{xN }, players follow the
equilibrium described in the Theorem 1, but xi = xN sends a message m(xN ) = 1. Since xi = xN

is a measure zero event, it will not affect the best responses or the thresholds. We have constructed an
informative equilibrium that is payoff equivalent to the equilibrium described in Theorem 1, but has
a distinct communication stage. This communication stage equilibrium is not sustainable with costly
messages.

B.2

Noisy Message Transmission

Firstly, let us closely examine the fully revealing equilibrium. Suppose the messages sent are the signal
realizations mi = xi and messages received are taken at face value. This communication stage induces

common posterior θ|xi , mj ∼ N θ̌, σ̌ 2 . To calculate θ̌, σ̌ 2 , let the average of the two signals be
x̄ := 21 (x1 + x2 ). Since the average signal is a sufficient statistic, we will refer to it as the player i’s

combined signal. Using the standard approach, the prior belief is updated with the combined signal

x̄σ 2 +θ σ 2
σ2 σ2
x̄, which induces a common posterior θ|x̄ ∼ N θ̌, σ̌ 2 , where θ̌ = σθ2 +σ02 , σ̌ 2 = σ2θ+σ2 and
θ

θ

σ 2 := 14 (σ12 + σ22 ). The first-best outcome of the game is for both players to take an attack action, if
posterior mean, θ̌, is greater than the cost of attacking c and abstain otherwise.
36

If there is no noise, fully revealing the signals is an equilibrium, since once signals are combined,
players’ preferences are perfectly aligned. Now, assume there is some residual uncertainty, that is, for
example, let messages get distorted in the transition process with noise ξ N (0, σξ2 ) that is independent
of the state and signals. Then, player i would exaggerate the signal fearing a negative distortion in
the message sending process. This slight misalignment distorts the fully revealing equilibrium. This
example highlights how sensitive fully revealing equilibrium is to slight noise in messages.

B.3

Richer message space

This section examines the case in which the message space is as large as the signal space |Mi | = |Si |.

In particular, without loss of generality let Mi = Si . This section focuses on equilibria that preserve the
structure of the global games in the second stage (Section B.2 above characterizes the fully revealing
equilibrium).
In the equilibrium presented below, the richness of message space allows players to reduce the
cases of miscoordination. However, it does not increase the probability of coordinated attacks; it only
reduces the cases of unsuccessful unilateral attacks. Therefore, the most informative equilibrium among
the partially informative equilibria of the type described below is identical to binary message equilibria
when there is a possibility for both of the players to attack or when both players are not attacking for
sure.
Result 6 Communication equilibrium with rich message space
There exists a perfect Bayesian equilibrium, where
(i) in the communication stage player i sends a message mi (xi ), and
(ii) in the action stage player i takes an action ai (xi ; x∗C , I), where

x∗ , if x ≥ x∗
i
C
C
mi (xi ) =
x , if x < x∗
i

i

(15)

C


1, if x , x ≥ x or x ≥ x̄∗ (x )
i j
i
j
C
ai (xi ; xC , I) =
0, o.w.

(16)

I = (mi , mj ), for xi ∈ Xi and i ∈ I, i 6= j.
The “positive message,” an intention to attack, is pooled as in the case of binary signals (the result
can be obtained by closely following the logic outlined in Lemma 5). That is, if xi ≥ x∗C , then mi = x∗C

(For xi ≥ x∗C , messages are pooled and without loss of generality, let mi = x∗C ). However, the richness
of messages reduces the cases of miscoordination. When xi < x∗C , player i will never attack, hence
this player is indifferent between sending any message. Therefore, we can let the message be anything
but the positive message that states xi ≥ x∗C . By setting mi (xi ) = xi , the probability of mistakes

(unsuccessful attacks) for player j is reduced, leading to the less wasted c in the action stage.
37

C

Additional Figures and Tables
Treatments
TI
TI&S

Rounds

Threshold Strategy

Perfect

Almost Perfect

All 50
Last 25
All 50
Last 25

98.0%
98.0%
87.5%
97.5%

28.0%
88.0%
32.5%
90.0%

70.0%
10.0%
55.0%
7.5%

Table 5: Threshold strategy usage

Variable

%

Gender: Female
Game Theory: Yes
GPA (self reported)
Major:

Computer Science
Economics
Humanities
Math
Physics/Chemistry
Other

44.44
15.66
3.5
17.68
10.61
9.091
5.051
2.525
54.55

Table 6: Survey Summary

Figure 10: Distribution of realized signals
0.03
0.02
0.01
0.00
-100

0

100

200

200

100

100

0

0

Signal j

200

-100

-100

-100

0

100

Signal i

38

200

0.00

0.01

0.02

0.03

0.04

D

Comparison example

This section presents a simple example to intuitively illustrate the differences between the current paper
and Baliga and Morris (2002) and to highlight the fundamental differences in game incentives. Let us
start with the game:
I
−5
0

I
N

N
−5
0

Figure 11: Low type: Dominant Strategy is not to Attack
I
N
I 10 − 5 −5
N
0
0
Figure 12: Medium type: attack only if the other is attacking
I
N
I 10 − 5 10 − 5
N
0
0
Figure 13: High type: Dominant Strategy is to Attack
Suppose there are only two messages available, m and m0 . Baliga and Morris (2002) type of
equilibrium:
Messages sent and actions taken

m,
m̃i (ti ) =
m0 ,

I,
ãi (ti , mi , mj ) =
N,

if ti = L or H
if ti = M

if (ti , mi , mj ) = (L, m, m), (L, m0 , m0 ) or (M, m0 , m0 )
otherwise

Consider the following deviation: Suppose player i is type H and message profile is (m, m0 ).
Equilibrium prescribes this type not to invest. However, the player gets 0 if the player does not invest
and 5 if the player invests. The important difference is that sometimes, even if player i is sure that player
j is not joining, then player i would still want to join. This difference is what drives the differences
and allows for some of the results in this study that are not present in Baliga and Morris (2002). This
is also the reason why the type of equilibria where communication strategy is non-monotonic such as
Example 4 in Baliga and Morris (2002) is not present in the current paper.
Moreover, unlike the above example, in incomplete information case, even when it is a dominant
strategy to invest, the other player joining increases the probability of success. Therefore, the high
types would never pretend to be low types.

39

E

Instructions (control treatment)
Instructions
This is an experiment in economic decision making. The funds have been provided to run this
experiment and if you make good decisions you may earn a substantial amount of money, which
will be paid to you privately in cash vouchers at the end of the experiment. We ask you not to
communicate with each other from now on and turn your mobile devices to silent mode. If you
have any questions, please raise your hand.
The experiment consists of 50 independent and identical rounds. In this experiment you will
be randomly paired with another person in the room, and you will remain matched with this
person throughout the 50 rounds that you play.
Your payoff for each round will depend on your choice, on the choice of the person you have been
paired with, and on chance. At the end of the experiment, the computer will randomly select five
of the rounds that you played and you will be privately paid the average of what you earned in
those specific rounds. The currency in this experiment is called tokens, and will be converted to
dollars at the end of the experiment at a rate of 6 tokens per dollar. In addition, you will receive a
participation fee of 10 dollars.

Decisions in each of 50 rounds
You will start each round of the experiment with an endowment of 24 tokens.
Each round of the experiment will consist of one decision stage in which you and your pair
member will make a choice between two alternatives: A or B based upon the information you
receive about an unknown number X. The number X is selected randomly in each round and
you will not know what this number is nor will your pair member. We will discuss how the
number X is randomly chosen later.

Payoff from Choosing Alternative B
Taking choice B does not yield any extra payoff no matter what your pair member does, so if you
choose B, your total payoff for the round will be your endowment of 24.

Payoffs from Choosing Alternative A
If you choose A, then your payoff will depend on how large the unknown number X is and on
whether your pair member selects A or B. Choosing alternative A always has a cost to you of 18
tokens.
Table 1 explains how the payoff of decision A depends on the true value of X and on the
choice you and your pair member choose. The second column of Table 1 contains a small table
that explains, for each possible value of X, the payoff that you and your pair member will receive,
depending on the choices you and your pair member choose. Your payoff is the first number in
the cell, and your pair member’s payoff is the number after the comma.

1

40

Table 1: Payoffs
If the value of X is :

Payoffs

Below 0

Between 0.01 and 99.99

Higher than 100

Your
Choice

Your
Choice

Your
Choice

A
B

Other’s Choice
A
B
6, 6
6, 24
24, 6 24, 24

A
B

Other’s Choice
A
B
X + 6, X + 6 6, 24
24, 6
24, 24

A
B

Other’s Choice
A
B
X + 6, X + 6 X + 6, 24
24, X + 6
24, 24

Let us look at these payoffs more closely:
• If you choose A and the true value of X is less than 0, then you will receive 24 − 18 = 6 no
matter what your pair member chooses.

• If the true value of X is between 0.01 and 99.99, then the payoff of choice A is equal to

24 + X − 18 if both you and your pair member decide for A. In this case, we say that choice
A is successful and each participant receives the amount of 24 + X − 18 = X + 6.

• If the value of X is between 0.01 and 99.99 and only you choose A (your pair member chooses
B), then choice A is not successful and you will not get any extra payoff. In this case you
will receive 24 − 18 = 6.
• Finally, if X is higher than 100.00, then if you choose A you will receive 24 + X − 18 = X + 6
regardless of what your pair member chooses.

Notice that your final payoff depends on the value of X and on the choice of you and your pair
member.
Notice as well that for very high and very low values of X, your payoff does not depend on the
choice of your pair member.

2

How is X chosen and what will you know about it.
The unknown number X is chosen from a distribution portrayed in Figure 1, which is called a
normal distribution with mean 50 and standard deviation of 50.
What Figure 1 shows is that while you will not be told the value of X, you will know that 95%
of the time the number X will have a value between −48 and 148 and that it is centered around
50. This means that the number X can take one of many possible values, but the numbers that are

closer to 50 have a higher probability to be drawn than those numbers that are further away from
50.

Figure 1: Graph of the probability density function of the unknown number X
While you will not know the value of X that is drawn, you and your pair member will each
receive a different signal giving you a hint as to what X is. This signal will be drawn at random
from a similar normal distribution as the one shown in Figure 1 above, except that the mean will
now be the number X and the standard deviation will be 10. This means that for the value of X
that is selected in each round 95% of the times your signal will have a value between X − 19.6

and X + 19.6. So, for example, if the unobserved number X is 90 your signal will come from a
distribution with mean 90 and standard deviation 10, so that 95% of the times your signal will be
a number between 70.4 and 109.6.

At the beginning of each round the number X will be randomly selected, but you and your
pair member will not observe it. Instead, you and your pair member will each receive a private
signal, independently drawn from the distribution with mean X and standard deviation 10. This
means that you and your pair member will observe different signals. On the basis of your signal
you are going to make your choice between two alternatives: A or B.
A round is ended once you and your pair member have made your decisions about choosing
A or B. Remember that there are 50 rounds in the first part of the experiment.

3

Information after each round
After each round you will be informed about:
• The true value of the number X,
• Your signal,
• Your choice,
• Your pair member’s choice,
• Your individual payoff for the round.
After a round is over, you will proceed to the next round and face the same decision. Note that
the values of X are randomly and independently determined from round to round, so a high X
in one period does not imply anything about the likely value of X for the next period.

Payoffs
When you reach the end of the experiment, five of the fifty rounds that you have played will be
randomly selected and you will get paid in dollars the average of the payoffs you obtained in those
rounds. In particular, the first paying round will be randomly selected from the first 10 rounds
you played, the second paying round will be randomly selected from the second 10 rounds you
played, the third paying round will be randomly selected from the third 10 rounds you played,
the fourth paying round will be randomly selected from the fourth 10 rounds you played, and the
fifth paying round will be randomly selected from the last 10 rounds you played. The average
of the tokens you obtained in those particular rounds will be converted to US dollars and will be
paid to you in cash vouchers. 6 tokens correspond to 1 dollar. You will also receive a show up fee
of 10 dollars.

Summary
• An unknown number X is randomly chosen from probability distribution in Figure 1
• You will be shown a signal (a hint) based on the realization of X
• You will choose an action A or B, and so will your pair member
• When the round is over, you will see the information as described above
• The next round will start

4

All instructions for the experiment were identical except the part regarding the messages. The
exerts about messages from each communication treatment are in the following subsections.

E.1

Messages (Intentions)

After you have observed your signal but before you make a choice between A and B you can send your
pair member a message, which can only be two letters: A or B. You will receive the message your pair
member sent and your pair member will receive your message.

E.2

Messages (Signals)

After you have observed your signal but before you make a choice between A and B you can send your
pair member a message, which can be any number. You will receive the message your pair member
sent and your pair member will receive your message.

E.3

Messages (Intentions and Signals)

After you have observed your signal but before you make a choice you can send your pair member a
message, which consists of sending two letters: A or B and any number. You will be sent the messages
from your pair member and your pair member will receive your messages.

44

