Journal of Economic Literature 2019, 57(1), 44–95
https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.20181489

Information Design:
A Unified Perspective†
Dirk Bergemann and Stephen Morris*
Given a game with uncertain payoffs, information design analyzes the extent to
which the provision of information alone can influence the behavior of the players.
Information design has a literal interpretation, under which there is a real information designer who can commit to the choice of the best information structure (from
her perspective) for a set of participants in a game. We emphasize a metaphorical
interpretation, under which the information design problem is used by the analyst
to characterize play in the game under many different information structures. We
provide an introduction to the basic issues and insights of a rapidly growing literature
in information design. We show how the literal and metaphorical interpretations of
information design unify a large body of existing work, including that on communication in games (Myerson 1991), Bayesian persuasion (Kamenica and Gentzkow 2011),
and some of our own recent work on robust predictions in games of incomplete information. ( JEL C70, D82, D83)

1.

studies how the information designer, through
the choice of the information provided, can
influence the individually optimal behavior
of the players to achieve her objective. She
can achieve this objective even though she
has no ­ability to change outcomes or force the

Introduction

P

layers’ payoffs in a game depend on their
actions and also on the realization of a payoff-relevant state. An “information designer”
can commit how to provide information about
the states to the players. “Information design”

lecture at Harvard University, and the 2016 fall Finance
Theory group conference at Princeton. Some of the
material in this paper was previewed in Bergemann and
Morris (2016b). We have benefited from discussions and
correspondence about the material in this paper with Ben
Brooks, Laura Doval, Jeff Ely, Francoise Forges, Drew
Fudenberg, Olivier Gossner, Tibor Heumann, Atsushi
Kajii, Emir Kamenica, Rohit Lamba, Laurent Mathevet,
Roger Myerson, Tymofiy Mylanov, Alessandro Pavan, Eran
Shmaya, Jonathan Weinstein, and Juan Pablo Xandri; and
from valuable research assistance from Ian Ball, Leon
Musolff, Denis Shishkin, Áron Tóbiás and Xinyang Wang.
†
Go to https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.20181489 to visit the
article page and view author disclosure statement(s).

* Bergemann: Department of Economics, Yale Univer-

sity. Morris: Department of Economics, Princeton University. We acknowledge financial support from NSF Grants
SES 0851200 and 1459899. We are grateful for productive suggestions by the Editor, Steven Durlauf, and five
anonymous referees. This material has been presented in
lectures at the 2015 Istanbul meetings of the Society of
Economic Design, the 2015 Delhi School of Economics
Winter School, the 2016 AEA meetings, the North American Summer Meeting of the Econometric Society, the
Gerzensee Summer Symposium in Economic Theory,
the Becker Friedman Institute conference on Frontiers
and Economic Theory and Computer Science, the Harris

44

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
­players to choose particular actions that determine outcomes.1
The past decade has seen a rapidly growing
body of literature in information design. An
influential paper by Kamenica and Gentzkow
(2011) phrased the optimal design of information as a “Bayesian persuasion” problem
between a sender and single receiver. A
large body of work fits this rubric, including important contributions of Brocas and
Carrillo (2007) and Rayo and Segal (2010).
The economic applications of information
design have been investigated in areas as far
apart as grade disclosure and matching markets (Ostrovsky and Schwarz 2010), voter
mobilization (Alonso and Câmara 2016),
traffic routing (Das, Kamenica, and Mirka
2017), rating systems (Duffie, Dworczak,
and Zhu 2017), and transparency regulation (Asquith, Covert, and Pathak 2013)
in financial markets, price discrimination
(Bergemann, Brooks, and Morris 2015), and
stress tests in banking regulation (Inostroza
and Pavan 2017).
One purpose of the paper is to provide an
overview of information design that unifies
this recent work with a number of literatures sometimes treated as distinct. If we
assume that there are many players, but the
information designer (or “mediator”) has no
informational advantage over the players,
this problem reduces to the analysis of communication in games (Myerson 1991, section
6.3) and, more generally, the literature on
correlated equilibrium in incomplete information games (Forges 1993). If there is only
one player (or “receiver”) but the information designer (or “sender”) has an informational advantage over the player, the problem
reduces to the “Bayesian persuasion” problem of Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011).
Information design concerns the general
case where there are both many players and
1 We follow Taneva (2015) in our use of the term “information design” in this context.

45

the information designer has an informational advantage over the players. This case
has been the focus of some our own work
(Bergemann and Morris 2013b, 2016a),
where we show that the set of outcomes that
can arise in this setting corresponds to a version of incomplete information equilibrium
(Bayes-correlated equilibrium, or BCE) that
allows outcomes to be conditioned on states
that the players do not know.
A second purpose of the paper is to highlight a distinction between literal information design and metaphorical information
design. The information design problem has
a literal interpretation (given above): there
really is an information designer (or mediator, or sender) who can commit to provide
extra information to players to serve her own
interests. While the commitment assumption may be problematic in many settings, it
provides a useful benchmark. But the information design formulation might also be a
metaphor that the analyst uses as a tool. For
example, we might be interested in finding an
upper bound (across information structures)
on the aggregate variance of output in a given
economy with idiosyncratic and common
shocks to agents’ productivity (Bergemann,
Heumann, and Morris 2015). We can understand this as an information design problem,
where the information designer is interested
in choosing an information structure to maximize aggregate variance in output. But in
this case, we do not have in mind that there
is an actual information designer maximizing aggregate variance. We will discuss this
application, and other applications where
information design is metaphorical, below.
This survey reviews the pure information
design problem where a designer can commit
to a certain information structure for the players but has no control over outcomes. This
problem is a special case of the more general
mechanism design problem where a mechanism designer can control outcomes but
may also be able to manipulate i­nformation

46

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

in the course of doing so.2 We study the case
where all information structures are available
to the designer. It is thus possible to appeal
to the revelation principle from the general
mechanism design problem, and without
loss of generality restrict attention to information structures where the signals that the
information designer sends to a player can
be identified with action recommendations.
This revelation principle/mechanism design
approach to information design thus contrasts
with work where there is no commitment
to the information structure or attention is
restricted to a parameterized class of information structures.
We use a family of two-player, two-action,
and two-state examples to survey the literature, and to provide some graphical illustrations. We start with the leading example of
Bayesian persuasion (with a single player/
receiver with no prior information) from the
work of Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011). We
can use extensions of this example—with
many players and prior information—to
illustrate many of the key ideas in the survey.
Three key substantive general insights are
illustrated in these examples.
First, it is often optimal for the information designer to selectively obfuscate information. This insight is familiar from the case
of one player without prior information.
Second, the information designer has less
ability to manipulate outcomes in his favor if
players have more prior information: if the
players are endowed with their own information, the designer has less influence over the
information structure that they end up with.
This insight can already be illustrated in the
2 Myerson (1982, 1991) describes the problem of “communication in games” where the designer cannot control
outcomes but can elicit information from players and pass
it to other players. Thus, what we are defining as the “information design” problem can be viewed as Myerson’s “communication in games” problem with the important new
feature that the designer may have access to information
that is not available to the players.

one-player case. But we will also describe
a general partial order on information
­structures—generalizing the Blackwell order
for the one-player case—which characterizes
the right definition of “more information” in
this context (Bergemann and Morris 2016a).
Third, we can ask whether the information
designer prefers to give the information to
players in a public or in a private message.
Of course, this last question only arises once
we have multiple players. Public information
is optimal if the information designer wants
perfect correlation between players’ actions;
otherwise private information will be optimal.
While the information designer may have
intrinsic preferences over whether players’
actions are correlated (or not), the designer
may care about correlation for purely instrumental reasons: if there are strategic complementarities between the players’ actions,
she may want to correlate players’ actions to
relax the obedience constraints on her ability to attain specific outcomes. The converse
holds for strategic substitutability. We will
illustrate the case when there are only instrumental preferences over correlation.
The examples also illustrate a methodological point. The information design problem
can be solved in two steps. First, we can identify the set of outcomes that could be induced
by the information designer. Second, we can
identify which of these outcomes would be
preferred by the information designer. This,
too, parallels the mechanism design literature: we can first identify which outcomes
are implementable and then identify the one
most preferred by the designer. As noted
above, in the information design problem,
the set of implementable outcomes corresponds to the set of Bayes-correlated equilibria. This approach reduces the problem to
a linear program.
The information designer is assumed to
be able to commit to an information structure that maps ­payoff-relevant states of the
world and prior information of the agents

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
(types) into possibly stochastic signals to the
players.3 As the mapping essentially recommends actions to the players, we refer to it
as a decision rule. We initially focus on what
we sometimes call the omniscient case: here,
the information designer faces no constraints
on her ability to condition the signals on the
­payoff-relevant states of the world and all the
players’ prior information (i.e., their types).
But we also consider information design constrained by private information, where the
prior information of the players is not accessible to the information designer, even though
she can condition on the p
­ayoff-relevant
states. There are two cases to consider here:
an information designer may be able to condition on the reported realizations of the
players’ signals even if she does not observe
them (information design with elicitation)
or she may be unable to do so (information
design without elicitation). If the information designer cannot condition on the payoff
state at all, and has to rely entirely on the private information of the players, then these
three scenarios (omniscient, private information with elicitation, and private information
without elicitation) correspond to versions of
incomplete information correlated equilibrium: in the terminology of Forges (1993),
the Bayesian solution, communication equilibrium, and strategic form correlated equilibrium, respectively.
Once the information designer has picked
the information structure, the players decide
how to play the resulting game of incomplete
3 Whether or not the information designer will observe
the payoff relevant state is irrelevant—what is important
is whether she can condition the signals she sends on the
realization of the state and the players’ prior signals. For
example, a prosecutor might never know whether the
defendant is guilty or innocent, but can nevertheless set
up an investigation process that would provide different
evidence depending on the actual guilt or innocence of
the subject and the information of the judge. We thank an
anonymous referee who stressed the distinction between
conditioning on a state, and actually knowing the realization of the state.

47

information. There may be multiple Bayes–
Nash equilibria of the resulting game. In our
treatment of the information design problem, we have been implicitly assuming that
the designer can pick which equilibrium is
played. Under this maintained assumption,
we can appeal to the revelation principle
and focus attention on information structures where the signal space is set equal to
the action space, and the signals have the
interpretation that they are action recommendations. In the single-player case, this
maintained equilibrium selection assumption is without loss of generality. But just
as the revelation principle breaks down in
mechanism design if the designer does not
get to pick the best equilibrium (as in Maskin
1999), it similarly breaks down for information design.4 We follow Mathevet, Perego,
and Taneva (2017) in formally describing a
notion of maxmin information design, where
an information designer gets to pick an information structure but the selected equilibrium is the worst one for the designer. We
note how some existing work can be seen
as an application of maxmin information
design, in particular, an extensive literature
on “robustness to incomplete information”
(Kajii and Morris 1997).
Other assumptions underlying the revelation principle—and maintained throughout
this paper—are that (i) all information structures are feasible, (ii) there is zero (marginal)
cost of using information, (iii) there is a single information designer, and (iv) the setting
is static. Of course, there are many (static)
settings where the impact of different information structures has been studied, without
allowing all information structures. Two classic examples would be information sharing in
oligopoly (a literature beginning with Novshek
and Sonnenschein 1982) and the revenue
comparison across different auction formats
4 This point has been highlighted by Carroll (2016) and
Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva (2017).

48

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

in auction theory (Milgrom and Weber 1982).
In the former, there is a restriction to normally
distributed signals, and in the latter there is
the restriction to affiliated signals.
Optimal information design in dynamic
settings has been studied recently in Ely,
Frankel, and Kamenica (2015); Passadore
and Xandri (2014); Doval and Ely (2016);
Ely (2017); Ely and Szydlowski (2017); Ball
(2018); and Makris and Renou (2018). A new
aspect to information design that appears in
these dynamic settings is that information
can be used as an incentive device to reward
behavior over time. Horner and Skrzypacz
(2016) survey work on information design in
dynamic settings. Gentzkow and Kamenica
(2014) consider the case of costly information and Gentzkow and Kamenica (2017)
allow for multiple information designers.
This paper provides a conceptual synthesized guide to the literature; we discuss
applications when they are relevant for this
purpose, but make no attempt to provide a
comprehensive survey of the many applications of information design. A recent survey
by Kamenica (forthcoming) reviews the literature of Bayesian persuasion and discusses
some leading economic applications.
We describe the basic information design
problem in section 2. We illustrate the
main notions and ideas with an investment
example in section 3. We discuss key ideas
from information design in the investment
example in section 4. Here, we discuss private versus public signals, intrinsic versus
instrumental preferences over correlation,
the two-step procedure for solving information design problems, ordering information, and the use of concavification in
information design (instead of pure linear
programming methods). Section 5 describes,
in more detail, two applications of information design with a microeconomic and
macroeconomic perspective, respectively:
limits of price discrimination, and the link
between i­nformation and volatility. These

two applications emphasize the relevance of
the metaphorical interpretation of information design. In section 6, we describe what
happens when players’ prior information is
not known by the information designer; this
discussion allows us to locate the information
design problem within mechanism design
and within a larger literature on incomplete
information correlated equilibrium reviewed
by Forges (1993). In section 7, we discuss
the role of equilibrium selection.
Given the synthetic treatment of the literature, there is much terminology that has
been introduced and used in different contexts (including by us in prior work), and
which is at times inconsistent or redundant.
To give one example, what we are calling an
“information designer” has in previous work
been called a sender, mediator, principal,
or mechanism designer. We are attempting throughout to use a unified and consistent language, but compromising at times
between the use of a consistent terminology
and precedents set by earlier work.
2.

The Information Design Problem

We begin by describing the general setting
and notation that we maintain throughout
the paper. We will fix a finite set of players
and a finite set of payoff states of the world.
There are ​I​ players, ​1, 2, …, I​, and we write ​i​
for a typical player. We write ​Θ​ for the set of
payoff states of the world and ​θ​ for a typical
element of set ​Θ​.
A “basic game” ​G​consists of (1) for each
player i​,​ a finite set of actions ​​A​i​​​, and an
(­ex post) utility function
	​​u​i​​  : A × Θ → ℝ,​
where we write ​
A = ​A1​ ​​  × ⋯ × ​A​I​​​, and​
a = ​
(​a1​ ​​  , …, ​aI​​​)​​for a typical element of ​A​;
and (2) a full support prior ​ψ ∈ Δ​(Θ)​​ that
is shared by all players and the information
designer. Thus ​G = ​(​​(​A​i​​, ​ui​​​)​​  Ii=1​  , Θ, ψ)​​. We

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
define the ex post objective of the information designer by:
	​
v : A × Θ → ℝ.​
An “information structure” ​S​consists of (i)
for each player ​i​, a finite set of types ​​t​i​​  ∈ ​Ti​​​​;
and (ii) a type distribution ​
π : Θ → Δ​(T)​​,
where we write ​T = ​T​1​​  × ⋯ × ​T​I​​​. Thus​
I
S = ​
(​​(​Ti​​​)​​  i=1​  , π)​​.
Together, the “payoff environment” or
“basic game” ​G​and the “belief environment”
or “information structure” ​S​define a standard “incomplete information game” ​​(G, S)​​.
While we use different notation, this division
of an incomplete information game into the
“basic game” and the “information structure”
is a common one in the literature, see, for
example, Gossner (2000).
We are interested in the problem of an
information designer who has the ability to
commit to provide the players with additional information, in order to induce them
to make particular action choices. In this
section, we will consider the leading case
where the designer can condition on the
state and on all the players’ types—their
prior i­nformation—if they have any. We will
sometimes refer to this setting as omniscient
information design. In section 6, we will consider the case where prior information of the
players is truly private to them, and hence
the information designer cannot condition
on their prior information unless she is able
to induce them to reveal it.5
If viewed as an extensive form game
between the information designer and the
players, the timing is as follows:
(i) the information designer picks and
commits to a rule for providing the
players with extra messages;
5 For this reason, we refer to the types of a player as his
prior information, and only in section 6 does this information become truly private.

49

(ii) the true state ​θ​is realized;
(iii) each agent’s type ​​t​i​​​ is privately realized;
(iv) the players receive extra messages
according to the information designer’s
rule;
(v) the players pick their actions based on
their prior information and the messages provided by the information
designer;
(vi) payoffs are realized.
We emphasize that the information
designer commits to a decision rule before the
realization of the state and type profile. This
structure in the timing sets the information
design problem apart from informed principal, cheap talk, or signaling environments
where the informed party chooses a message
only after the state has been revealed.
In general, the information designer
could follow any rule for generating messages. However, a “revelation principle”
argument implies that it is without loss of
generality to assume that the information
designer sends only “action recommendations” that are obeyed. The argument is
that any message will give rise to an action
in equilibrium and we might as well label
messages by the actions to which they give
rise. We discuss the revelation principle in
more detail below. Given this restriction,
the information designer is choosing among
decision rules
(1)	​
σ : T × Θ → Δ​(A)​  .​
The information designer can condition
the recommended action profile on the true
state ​θ ∈ Θ​and the type vector t​ ∈ T​. We
stress that the designer does not need to
know the true realization of the state or the
type profile—it is sufficient that the decision

50

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

rule can condition on these. For example, in
a medical test, the information designer, the
doctor, may not know the true condition of
the patient, but can choose a diagnostic test
that reveals the condition of the patient with
the desired precision and accuracy.
The decision rule encodes the information
that the players receive about the realized
state of the world, the types and actions of
the other players. The conditional dependence of the recommended action ​a​ on state
of the world ​θ​and type profile t​​ represents
the information conveyed to the players.
The key restriction on the decision rule is
a notion of obedience that we now define.
Obedience is the requirement that the information privately communicated to player​
i​in the form of an action recommendation​​
a​i​​​ according to ​σ​ is such that each player i​​
would want to follow his recommended
action ​​ai​​​​rather than choose any other available action ​​a​  ′i​ ​.​
DEFINITION 1 (Obedience): Decision rule​
σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​is obedient for (​G, S)​ if,
for each ​i​, ​​ti​ ​​  ∈ ​T​i​​​ and ​​ai​ ​​  ∈ ​A​i​​​, we have
(2)
​  ​  ∑ ​​ui​​​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i​)​, θ)​σ​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i​)​|​(​ti​​, ​t​−i​)​, θ)​π​(​(​ti​​, ​t​−i​)​|θ)​ψ​(θ)​
​ai​​,​ti​​,θ

​ i​)​, θ)​σ(​ ​(​ai​​, ​a−
​ i​)​|​(​ti​​, ​t−
​ i​)​, θ)​π(​ ​(​ti​​, ​t−
​ i​)​|θ)​ψ​(θ)​,​
≥ ​  ∑ ​​​​ui​(​​​ ​(​a​i′​​, ​a−
​ai​​,​ti​​,θ

for all ​​a​  ′i​ ​ ∈ ​Ai​​​​.
For notational compactness, we only list
the elements, but not the sets, over which
we sum under the summation operator,
thus, e.g., ​​∑a​  ​​​ rather than ​​∑a∈A ​​​. The obedience inequality requires that each player i​​,
after receiving his recommendation ​​a​i​​​, finds
that no other action a​ ​​ ′i​ ​ could yield him a
strictly higher utility. We emphasize that
each player, when computing his expected
utility, is indeed using the information contained in the action recommendation ​​a​i​​​, and

thus the above inequality is written from
an interim perspective (conditioning on​​
t​i​​​ and ​​a​i​​​). We can state the above inequality explicitly in terms of the interim beliefs
that agent i​​holds, given his type ​​
t​i​​​ and
his action recommendation ​​
a​i​​​, thus using
Bayes’s rule:
 ​  ​  ∑ ​​ ​ui​​​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i​)​, θ)​
​ai​​,​ti​​,θ

× ​ 

σ​(​(​ai​​, ​a−i
​ ​)|​​(​ti​​, ​t−i
​ ​)​, θ)​π​(​(​t​i​, ​t−i
​ ​)|​θ)​ψ​(θ)​
_______________________________
   
   
 ​
​∑ ​a​i″​,​​t​i″​,​θ′′​σ​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i
′′ ​)|​​(​ti​​, ​t​−i
′′ ​)​, ​θ″ ​)​π​(​(​ti​​, ​t​−i
′′ ​)|​​θ″ ​)​ψ​(​θ″ ​)​

≥  ​  ∑ ​​ ​ui​​​(​(​a​i′​​, ​a​−i​)​, θ)​
​ai​​,​ti​​,θ

× ​ 

σ​(​(​ai​​, ​a−i
​ ​)|​​(​ti​​, ​t−i
​ ​)​, θ)​π​(​(​t​i​, ​t−i
​ ​)|​θ)​ψ​(θ)​
_______________________________________
   
   
 ​ .​
​∑ ​a​i″​,​​t​i″​,​θ′′​σ​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i
′′ ​)|​​(​ti​​, ​t​−i
′′ ​)​, ​θ″ ​)​π​(​(​ti​​, ​t​−i
′′ ​)|​​θ″ ​)​ψ​(​θ″ ​)​

We observe that the belief of agent ​i​ updates
independently of whether he is following the
recommendation ​​a​i​​​or deviating from it to
​​a​  ′i​ .​ Moreover, the denominator in Bayes’s rule
​ ​​,
sums up over all possible profiles ​​a​  ′′−i​ ​∈ ​A−i
​ ​​, ​θ″ ​  ∈ Θ​
, and hence is constant
​t​  ′′−i​ ​∈ ​T−i
​ ​​,
across all possible realizations of ​​a​−i​​  ∈ ​A−i
​ ​​, θ ∈ Θ​
. Hence, we can multiply
​t​−i​​  ∈ ​T−i
through to obtain the earlier inequality (2),
provided that the denominator is strictly
positive.
Bergemann and Morris (2016a) define a
Bayes-correlated equilibrium (BCE) to be
any decision rule ​σ​ satisfying obedience. An
important aspect of this solution concept is
that the decision rule ​σ​ enters the obedience
constraints, as stated above in (2), in a linear
manner as a probability. Thus, an obedient
decision rule can be computed as the solution to a linear program.
PROPOSITION 1 (Revelation Principle):
An omniscient information designer can
attain decision rule ​σ​ if and only if it is a
BCE, i.e., if it satisfies obedience.
By “can attain decision rule” we mean
that there exists a (perhaps indirect)

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
c­ommunication rule that gives rise to this
decision rule in Bayes–Nash equilibrium.6
We refer to the resulting (ex ante) joint distribution of payoff state ​θ​ and action profile​
a​as the outcome of the information design,
thus integrating out the prior information ​t​:
	​​  ∑​​​  σ​(a | t, θ)​  π​(t | θ)​  ψ​(θ)​.​
t∈T

In this (and later) propositions, we omit formal statements and proofs that correspond to
revelation principle arguments. Bergemann
and Morris (2016a) give a formal statement7
and proof of this proposition as theorem 1.
The argument is a straightforward adaptation of standard characterizations of complete and incomplete information correlated
equilibrium.
If there is no payoff uncertainty—the set​
Θ​ is a singleton—then the notion of BCE
exactly coincides with the complete information correlated equilibrium as introduced in
the seminal contributions of Aumann (1974,
1987). In the absence of payoff uncertainty,
we can simply suppress the dependence of
the payoff function on the state of the world​
θ​. Thus, the decision rule ​σ​ does not vary
with ​θ,​nor is there any private information​
t​about the state of the world ​θ​. A decision
rule ​σ​ is then simply a joint distribution over
actions, or ​σ ∈ Δ(A)​
. Now, a distribution​
σ ∈ Δ(A)​is defined to be a correlated equilibrium if for each ​i​ and ​​a​i​​  ∈ ​Ai​​​​, we have:
​ ​​)​  σ​(​ai​​​, ​a−i
​ ​​)​ 
(3) ​​  ∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​​(​ai​​​, ​a−i
​a−
​ i​​∈​A−
​ i​​

≥ ​  ∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​​(​a​  ′i​ ​, ​a​−i​​)​  σ​(​ai​​​, ​a​−i​​)​,   ∀ ​a​  ′i​ ​∈ ​Ai​​​.​
​a​−i​​∈​A​−i​​

6 We do not discuss information design under solution
concepts other than Bayes–Nash equilibrium in this paper.
Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva (2017) study information
design under bounded level rationalizability and Inostroza
and Pavan (2017) under full rationalizability.
7 A formal statement also appears in section 7.

51

The obedience condition (2) thus collapses to the best response property (3) in
the absence of payoff uncertainty. Aumann
(1987) argued that correlated equilibrium
captured the implications of common knowledge of rationality in a complete information
game (under the common prior assumption).
An alternative interpretation is that the set of
correlated equilibria is the set of outcomes
attainable by an information designer in the
absence of payoff uncertainty. We discuss
these interpretational issues and the literature on incomplete information correlated
equilibrium more broadly in section 6.4.
The proof of proposition 1 in Bergemann
and Morris (2016a), like the proof of Aumann
(1987), is a “revelation principle” argument,
establishing that it is without loss of generality to focus on a set of signals that equals the
set of actions to be taken by the agents—so
that there is “direct communication”—and
to recommend actions in such way that they
will be obeyed—so that “incentive compatibility” gives rise to “obedience” conditions. In
the case of complete information, Myerson
(1991, section 6.2) describes this as the “revelation principle for strategic form games.”
Note that while the expression “revelation
principle” is sometimes limited to the case
where agents are sending messages rather
than receiving them (e.g., Fudenberg and
Tirole 1991 and ­Mas-Collel, Whinston, and
Green 1995), we follow Myerson in using
the broader meaning throughout the paper.
In the basic information design described in
this section, the only incentive constraints
are obedience conditions, but we discuss
the extension to the case where the information designer must elicit players’ private
information in section 6, where ­truth-telling
incentive constraints also arise. We postpone
a discussion of how to place information
design in the broader context of the mechanism design literature until then.
Proposition 1 characterizes the set of outcomes that an information designer could

52

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

attain, i.e., a feasible set. To complete the
description of the basic information design
problem, we need an objective. Given the
information designer’s ex post utility ​v​(a, θ)​​,
her ex ante utility from the decision rule ​σ​
for a given game of incomplete information​​
(G, S)​​ is:
(4) ​V(σ) = ​ ∑ ​​v​(a, θ)​σ​(a | t, θ)​π​(t | θ)​ψ​(θ)​.​
a,t,θ

The (omniscient) information design problem is then to pick a BCE ​σ​to maximize
​V​(σ).​​ When there is a single player with no
prior information, the information design
problem reduces to the benchmark Bayesian
persuasion problem described by Kamenica
and Gentzkow (2011). In this case, the single
player is called the “receiver” and the information designer is called the “sender.”
3.

An Investment Example

We now apply this framework to an investment game and discuss the main themes of
information design through the lens of this
example.
We first consider the following benchmark
setting. There is a bad state ​​(B)​​and a good
state ​​(G)​​. The two states are equally likely:
_ ​  .​
	​
ψ​(G)​  = ψ​(B)​  = ​  1
2

There is one player (the “firm”). The firm
can decide to invest or not invest. The payoff
from not investing is normalized to ​0.​ The
payoff to investing is ​− 1​in the bad state and​
x​in the good state, with ​0 < x < 1​. These
payoffs, ​u​(a, θ),​​ are summarized in the following matrix:
u(a, θ)

(5)

bad state B

good state G

invest

−1

x

not invest

0

0

.

3.1 Single Player without Prior Information
We begin the analysis when the firm has
no prior information about the state (beyond
the uniform prior). Together with the above
assumptions about the payoff matrix, the
firm would therefore choose to not invest if
it had no additional information.
We will assume that an information
designer (the “government”) is interested
in maximizing the probability of investment
independent of the state, or
​1 = v(invest, θ) > v(not invest, θ) = 0,
θ = B, G.​
This example is (modulo some changes in
labelling) the leading example in Kamenica
and Gentzkow (2011). We will describe this
example first, but then use variations to illustrate more general points. The decision rule
is now simply:
	​
σ : Θ → Δ​(A)​,​
where we can omit the type space ​T​ due
to the absence of prior information. In this
binary decision environment, the decision
rule ​σ​(θ)​​specifies the probability of investment, denoted by ​​p​θ​​​, conditional on the true
state ​θ ∈ ​{B, G}.​​ Thus, a decision rule is a
​ ​​)​​of investment probabilities. We
pair (​​ ​pB​ ​​, ​pG
can think of a decision rule as a (stochastic)
action recommendation from the government. If the recommendations are obeyed,
the outcome—the ex ante distribution over
states and actions—is given by:
σ(a | θ)ψ(θ)
invest
not invest

bad state B

good state G

​​  1_2 ​ ​​​p​B​​​

​​  1_2 ​ ​​​p​G​​​

​​ _21 ​ ​(1 − ​​pB​ ​​​)

​​ _12 ​ ​(1 − ​​pG
​ ​​​)

.

53

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
If the firm receives a recommendation to
invest, it will update its beliefs about the state
by Bayes’s rule. The firm’s interim expected
utility from following the recommendation
represents the left-hand side of the inequality below. If the firm were to disobey the recommendation and chose not to invest, then
its payoff would be zero. This gives rise to
the following obedience constraint:
​ _12 ​ ​pG
​ ​​
​  1_​ ​pB​ ​​
__________
__________ ​  x ≥ 0.​
−1
​ 
+ ​ 
 ​​
(6) ​​  1 2
(
)
_
​  2 ​ ​p​B​​  + ​  1_2 ​ ​p​G​​
​  1_2 ​ ​p​B​​  + ​ _12 ​ ​p​G​​
As we discussed following definition 1, we
can simplify the inequality by multiplying
through with the conditioning probability
_
​ ,​​​ and thus write the obedience
​​  12 ​ ​pB​ ​​  + ​ _12 ​ ​pG
condition equivalently in terms of the interim
probabilities:
​p​B​​
1 ​ ​p​ ​​  x ≥ 0 ⇔ ​
1 ​ ​p​ ​​​ −1 ​  + ​ _
pG
​ ​​  ≥ ​ _
(7) ​​ _
)
B(
G
x ​  .​
2
2
There is an analogous obedience constraint
corresponding to the recommendation not to
invest, namely:
1 ​​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​​ −1 ​  + ​ _
	​0 ≥ ​ _
) 12 ​​(1 − ​p​G​​)​  x.​
B)(
2(
Because the firm would not invest absent
information from the designer—by our
maintained assumption that x​ < 1​—the
binding obedience constraint will be the one
corresponding to investment, i.e., inequality
(7). We see that the highest probability of
investment corresponds to the decision rule
with ​​pG
​ ​​  = 1​ and ​​pB​ ​​  = x​.
We illustrate the set of BCE decision rules
for the case where ​x = 55/100​in figure 1.
​ ​​)​in the blue shaded
Any decision rule (​​p​B​​  , ​pG
area can arise as some BCE. We observe that
the feasible set of BCE does not depend on
the government’s preference ​v​(a, θ)​​.
Now every BCE decision rule corresponds
to optimal behavior under some information
structure ​S.​ By the revelation principle for

the BCE, it suffices to give the firm a binary
information structure ​S​to implement any
BCE decision rule in the binary action environment. For the outcome that maximizes
the probability of investment, it suffices to
generate a ­no-investment recommendation
with probability ​1 − x​if the state is bad, and
otherwise give the firm an investment recommendation. The resulting outcome—the
ex ante distribution over states and actions—
is given by:
σ(a | θ)ψ(θ)

(8)

invest
not invest

bad state B

good state G

​​  1_2 ​ ​​x​

​​  1_2 ​ ​​

​​ _12 ​ ​(1 − ​x​)

.

0

Thus, a government trying to encourage
investment will obfuscate the states of the
world in order to maximize investment. By
pooling realizations of the bad and good
states in the recommendation to invest, the
firm is made exactly indifferent between
investing or not when recommended to
invest. The bad state is completely isolated in the recommendation not to invest.
Finally, we observe that under complete
information the firm would always invest
in the good state and never invest in the
bad state. We thus have described three
different information structures—zero
information, partial information, and complete information—that support the three
­vertices of the above investment triangle.
Thus, the set of all investment probabilities
that satisfy the obedience constraints can be
described by a set of linear inequalities that
jointly form a polyhedron of implementable
outcomes.
3.2 Single Player with Prior Information
We remain with the investment example
where there is still only one firm, but now
the firm has some prior information about
the true state that it receives independently

54

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)
1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4

0.2

0
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

pB
Figure 1. Investment Probability with Uninformed Player: x = 55/100

of the government.8 In particular, the firm
has a type (or receives a signal) that is “correct” with probability ​q > 1 / 2​. Formally,
the firm observes its type t​ ∈ ​
{b, g}​​ with
probability ​q​conditional on the true state
being ​B​or ​G,​ respectively:
π(t | θ)

bad state B

good state G

bad signal b

q

good signal g

1−q

1−q

.

q

8 Some detailed calculations for this example appear in
the appendix.

Here, signals refer to the prior information
that firms are endowed with. Conditional on
the type of the firm, the analysis of the obedience constraints reduces immediately to the
analysis of the previous section, but where
the firm has an updated belief, ​q​ or ​1 − q​,
depending on the type. We nonetheless analyze this problem because we want to trace
the ex ante implications of a player’s prior
information for information design. A decision rule ​σ​ now specifies the probability of
investment ​​p​θt​​​conditional on the true state​
θ ∈ ​{B, G}​​and the type t​ ∈ ​{b, g}​​. Thus a
decision rule is now a quadruple:
​ ​​, ​pBg
​ ​​, ​pGb
​ ​​, ​pGg
​ ​​)​.​
(9)	​
p = ​
(​pBb

55

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
We can solve the problem—conditional on
state and type—as before. For example, the
obedience constraint for the recommendation to invest after receiving a good type ​g​
now becomes:
​ ​​​(−1)​  + q ​p​Gg​​  x ≥ 0.​
(10)	​​(1 − q)​ ​pBg
However, we are interested in what we can
say about the joint distribution of states and
actions ex ante, integrating out the types, say
​ ​​  + ​(1 − q)​​pGb
​ ​​.​
	​​p​G​​  = q​pGg
One can show that there is a lower bound on
investment in the good state given by:
1−q
(11)	​
p​G​​ ≥ q − ​ _
x ​  , ​
which approaches ​1​as ​q​ approaches ​1​. As
before, the bound for ​​
p​G​​​ depends on ​​p​B​​​
and the lowest bound is obtained by taking​​
p​B​​  = 0​in that expression.
The set of BCE is illustrated in figure 2.
More prior information shrinks the set
of BCE, since the obedience constraints
become tighter. Once ​q​reaches ​1,​ the firm
knows the state and the information designer
has no ability to influence the outcome. The
firm is simply pursuing the complete information optimal decision, which is to invest in
the good state, ​​p​G​​  = 1​, and not to invest in
the bad state, ​​p​B​​  = 0​.
The set of BCE across different ​q​has two
notable features. First, we notice that the
set of BCE happens to be constant across
some information structures near precision
​q = 0.5​, for example at ​q = 0.5​and ​q = 0.6​.
With low precision in the signals, such as​
q = 0.6​
, the firm would pursue the same
action for either type realization, absent
any additional recommendation by the government. Thus, the weak prior information
by the agent does not constrain the government in its recommendation policy. In

­consequence, prior information of the player
only affects the set of BCE if the prior information by itself already generates a differential response by the player. Second, the slope
of the boundary is constant across different
levels of precision ​
q.​ This occurs because
the rate at which the optimal decision of the
player can be reversed by additional information of the designer (and hence indifference
is attained) is constant across ​q​by Bayes’s law.
3.3 Many Players without Prior
Information
We can now generalize the analysis to two
firms and return to the assumption that the
firms have no prior information.9 We assume,
for now, that the government wants to maximize the sum over each individual firm’s
probability of investment. If there is no strategic interaction between firms, the previous
analysis can be carried out firm by firm and
will thus be unchanged.
But we now perturb the problem to make
it strategic, assuming that each firm gets an
extra payoff ​ε​ if both invest, where ​ε​ may
be positive or negative. If ​ε​ is positive, we
have a game of strategic complementarities;
if ​ε < 0​, we have a game of strategic substitutes. We can write firm ​1’​s state dependent
payoffs for the game as follows (and symmetrically for firm ​2​):

firm 2
θ=B

(12)

firm 1

invest

not invest

invest

−1 + ε

−1

not invest

0

0

,

9 Other two player, two action, and two state examples
appear in Bergemann and Morris (2013a, 2016a) and
Taneva (2015).

56

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4

0.2

q = 0.5, 0.6
q = 0.7
q = 0.8
q = 0.9

0
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

pB
Figure 2. Investment Probability with Informed Player: x = 55/100
firm 2
θ=G
firm 1

invest

not invest

invest

x+ ε

x

not invest

0

0

.

We can focus on symmetric decision rules,
given the symmetry of the basic game, for
any symmetric objective of the information
designer. To see why, note that if we found
an asymmetric maximizing decision rule,
the decision rule changing the names of the
firms would also be optimal, and so would
the (symmetric) average of the two decision
rules. Therefore, we will continue to write
​​pθ​ ​​​for the probability that each firm will

invest in state θ​∈ ​{G, B};​​ but we will
now write ​​r​θ​​​for the probability that both
invest. Thus a decision rule is a vector
​ ​​  , ​rG
​ ​​).​​ A decision rule can now be
​​(​pB​ ​​, ​rB​ ​​, ​pG
represented in a table as

(13)

θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

​​r​B​​​

not invest

​​p​B​​​  − ​​r​B​​​

​​p​B​​​  − ​​r​B​​​

1 + ​​r​B​​​  − ​​2p​B​​​

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

​​r​G​​​

not invest

​​pG
​ ​​​  − ​​rG
​ ​​​

​​p​G​​​  − ​​r​G​​​

1 + ​​r​G​​​  − ​​2p​G​​​

,

.

57

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
To ensure that all probabilities are
­onnegative, we require that for all
n
​θ ∈ ​
{B, G}​:​

and we can summarize the optimal decision
rule in the following table:
θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

0

The firm has an incentive to invest when told
to do so if

ε
____
​​
​​  1x +
−ε

not invest

0

1 − x −  ​​
2ε
​​ ____
1−ε

1 ​ ​p​ ​​  x + ​  1
1 ​ ​p​ ​​  + ​ _
_ ​​(​r​ ​​  + ​r​ ​​)​  ε ≥ 0, ​
(14) ​
− ​ _
G
2 B 2 G
2 B

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

1

0

not invest

0

0

	​max​{0, 2 ​pθ​ ​​  − 1}​  ≤ ​rθ​ ​​  ≤ ​pθ​ ​​  .​

and an incentive to not invest when told to
not do so if
1 ​​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​  x
1 ​​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​  + ​ _
  ​
− ​ _
B)
G)
2(
2(
1 ​​ ​p​ ​​  − ​r​ ​​  + ​p​ ​​  − ​r​ ​​ ​  ε ≤ 0.​
    + ​ _
B
G
G)
2( B
Since x​ < 1​
, (14) is always the binding
constraint and—for |​​ε |​​sufficiently close to
​0​—we can rewrite it by the same reasoning
as in section 3.1 as
​p​B​​
ε
_
(15)	​​p​G​​  ≥ ​ _
x ​  − ​(​r​B​​  + ​r​G​​)​ ​  x ​  .​
Now maximizing the sum of the probabilities of each firm investing corresponds to
maximizing ​​p​B​​​, (or ​​pB​ ​​  + ​p​G​​​, but we will have​​
p​G​​  = 1​always) subject to (15). For fixed​
x < 1​ and ​​| ε |​  ≈ 0​, it is clearly optimal to
have firms always invest when the state is
​ ​​  = 1​) and it is not
good (so ​​p​G​​  = 1​ and ​​rG
possible to get both firms to always invest
when the signal is bad.
If ​ε > 0​, (15) implies that it is optimal to
choose ​​r​B​​​as large as possible given ​​p​B​​​. Thus
we will set ​​r​B​​  = ​pB​ ​​​. Substituting these variables into expression (15), we have
​p​B​​
ε
_
	​1 ≥ ​ _
x ​  − ​(​pB​ ​​  + 1)​ ​ x ​  ,​
and so it is optimal to set
x + ε ​  ,​
	​​p​B​​  = ​r​B​​  = ​ _
1−ε

,

.

This decision rule entails a public signal: there is common certainty among the
firms that they always observe the same
signal.
If ​ε < 0​, it remains optimal to have both
firms always invest when the state is good
(​​p​G​​  = ​r​G​​  = 1​). But now we want to mini​ ​​, ​rG
​ ​​).​​ To reduce cases,
mize ​​r​B​​​ given (​​ ​pB​ ​​, ​pG
let us assume that x​ > 1/2​and restrict
attention to |​​ε |​  ≤ x − 1/2​. In this case, it
will be optimal to set ​​r​B​​  = 0​. Substituting
these expressions into (15), we have
​p​B​​ ε
_
	​1 ≥ ​ _
x ​  − ​  x ​  .​
Thus we will now have ​​p​B​​  = x + ε,​and we
can summarize the optimal decision rule in
the following table:
θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

0

not invest

x+ ε

x+ ε

1 − 2x − 2ε

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

1

0

not invest

0

0

,

.

58

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

Under this decision rule, firms told to invest
know neither whether the state is good or
bad, nor if the other firm is investing or not.
Thus, signals are private to each firm. Given
that, in the bad state, each firm will invest
with (roughly) probability ​x​and will not with
(roughly) probability ​1 − x​, the above information structure minimizes the unconditional correlation of the signals across firms
(or equivalently minimizes the negative correlation conditional on the bad state.)
Strategic complementarities increase the
private return from investing if the other
player invests as well. Below, we display
the set of investment probabilities that can
be attained by the government while varying the size of the strategic effect ​ε​. As the
strategic effect ​ε​ increases, the boundaries
of the investment probabilities attainable by
the government shift outwards as illustrated
in figure 3. As the strategic complementarity increases (or strategic substitutability
decreases), the government can support a
larger probability of investment in both states.
The intermediate case of ​ε = 0​reduces to
the case of a single player, and hence reduces
to the area depicted earlier in figure 1.
3.4 Many Players with Prior Information
We analyzed the case of two players and
prior information in Bergemann and Morris
(2016a). Here, we illustrate this case without
formally describing it. As in the single-player
case, an increase in players’ prior information limits the ability of the designer to influence the players’ choices. Consequently,
the impact of prior information on the set
of attainable investment probabilities with
many players is similar to the one-player case.
In figure 4 we illustrate the set of attainable
investment probabilities under increasing
prior information with strategic complementarities. The strategic complementarities give
rise to a kink in the set of attainable probabil​ ​​)​​, unlike in the single-player case
ities ​​(​pB​ ​​, ​pG
depicted earlier in figure 2.

4.

Issues in Information Design Illustrated
by the Examples

Let us draw out the significance of these
examples. One basic point that has been
extensively highlighted (e.g., by Kamenica
and Gentzkow 2011 and the following
Bayesian persuasion literature) is that when
there is a conflict between the designer
and the player(s), it will, in general, be
optimal for the designer to obfuscate, that
is, hide information from the player(s) in
order to induce him to make choices that
are in the designer’s interests. And conditional on obfuscation being optimal, it
may not be optimal to hide all information,
but will, in general, be optimal to partially
reveal information. This issue already arises
in the case of one player with no prior
information.
In this section, we draw out a number of
additional insights about information design
that emerged from the examples. First, we
observe that information will be supplied to
players publicly or privately depending on
whether the designer would like to induce
positive or negative correlation in players’
actions; we also discuss designers’ possible
intrinsic or instrumental reasons for wanting positive or negative correlation. Second,
we note that in the case of one player with
prior information, more prior information
constrains the ability of the designer to
control outcomes; we discuss the manyplayer generalization of this observation.
Third, we discuss the elegant “concavification” approach as an alternative to the
linear programming representation used
above to characterize and provide insights
into the information designer’s problem.
We also discuss an extension of the concavification approach to the many-player
case but note limitations of the concavification approach, both in the one-player
case and (even more) in the many-player
case.

59

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4
ε = 0.3
ε = 0.2
ε = 0.1
ε=0
ε = −0.1
ε = −0.2
ε = −0.3

0.2

0
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

pB
Figure 3. Investment Probability with Negative or Positive Strategic Term ε

4.1 Public versus Private Signals
and Instrumental versus Intrinsic
Motivation for Preferences over
Correlation
An information designer will often have
preferences over whether players’ actions
are correlated with each other or not. The
case of many players without prior information illustrates the point that if the designer
wants players’ actions to be correlated, it will
be optimal to give them public signals, and if
he wants players’ actions to be uncorrelated
he will give them private signals. However,
there are different reasons why the designer
might want to induce positive or negative
correlation in actions.

In our analysis of the case of two players
without prior information, we made the
assumption that the information designer
wanted to maximize the sum of the probabilities that each player invests. Thus, we
assumed that the information designer
did not care whether players’ actions
were correlated or not. Put differently, we
assumed that the information designer had
no intrinsic preferences over correlation.
Yet, despite this assumption, we observed
that the information designer wants—for
instrumental reasons—to induce correlated
behavior when players’ actions are strategic complements, and to induce negative
correlation when there were strategic substitutes among the players. This in turn gen-

60

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)
1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4

q = 0.5
q = 0.6
q = 0.7
q = 0.8
q = 0.9

0.2

0
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

pB
Figure 4. Investment Probability with Two Players with Prior Information, with Strategic Term ε = 3 /10

erated the insight that the designer would
like to generate public signals when there
are strategic complementarities and private
signals when there are strategic substitutes.
The reason for this instrumental objective
is that under strategic complements, the
designer can slacken obedience constraints
by correlating play, with the opposite mechanism holding under strategic substitutes.
We now describe three environments
where there will be only instrumental concerns about correlation. First, Mathevet,
Perego, and Taneva (2017) consider an
environment with ­one-sided strategic complementarities. The designer cares about
the action of a first player who cares about

the action of a second player who has no
strategic concerns, i.e., does not care about
the first player’s action. In this case, the
information designer does not have intrinsic preferences over correlation (because
she only cares about the first player’s
action), but has an instrumental incentive
to correlate actions because she can use
information design to influence the action
of the second player and correlate behavior in order to slacken the first player’s obedience constraint. In the formulation of
Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva (2017), the
information designer is a manager, the first
player is a worker, and the second player is
a supervisor.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
Second, Bergemann and Morris (2016a)
consider an environment with two-sided
strategic complementarities but where a
­onstrategic payoff externality removes
n
intrinsic preferences over correlation. To
illustrate this, suppose that we take our many
player with no prior information example
from section 3.3, but now suppose that—in
addition to the existing payoffs—each firm
would like the other firm to invest, and thus
there are spillovers. In the following payoff
table, we are assuming that each firm gets an
extra payoff of ​z > 0​if the other firm invests:
θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

−1 + ε + z

−1

not invest

z

0

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

x+ ε + z

x

not invest

z

0

,

.

Observe that this change in payoffs has no
impact on the firms’ best responses: neither
firm can influence whether the other firm
invests. But now suppose that the government is interested in maximizing the sum of
the firms’ payoffs. Consider the case that ​z​ is
very large. As ​z​becomes larger and larger,
the government’s objective will approach
maximizing the sum of the probabilities
that each firm invests. In this sense, the
government’s instrumental preference for
correlation is ­micro-founded in the benevolent government’s desire to make each firm
invest in the interests of the other firm. This
example illustrates a distinctive point about
strategic information design. Recall that
in the one-player case where the designer
and the player have common interests, it
is always optimal for the designer to fully
reveal all information in order to allow the

61

player to take an action that is optimal given
their shared preferences. In the many-player
case, however, the players themselves may
not act in their joint interest for the usual
(­
noncooperative strategic) reasons. In this
case—as in the above example—a benevolent information designer might want to
obfuscate information.
For a last case with only instrumental concerns over correlation, Bergemann
and Morris (2013b) considered quantity
(Cournot) competition in a market, where
the information designer wants to maximize
the sum of the firms’ payoffs, i.e., the industry profits.10 A continuum of firms choose
output where there is uncertainty about the
intercept of the demand curve, i.e., the level
of demand. In this case, the information
designer would like the firms’ total output to
be correlated with the level of demand, but
total profits do not depend on the correlation of firms’ output conditional on the level
of aggregate output. However, firms would
like their actions to be negatively correlated
(because the game is one of strategic substitutes); but they would also like output to be
correlated with the state. The information
designer can induce players to make total
output choices that are closer to the optimal level, but allow them to negatively correlate their output. In the optimal outcome
(for some parameters), firms observe conditionally independent private signals about
the state of demand, trading off these two
objectives.11
Having considered the case where the
information designer cares about correlation
for instrumental but not intrinsic reasons, we
can also consider the opposite case where the
information designer cares about correlation
10 This corresponds to a large literature on information
sharing in oligopoly following Novshek and Sonnenschein
(1982).
11 In this setting, the information designer would like to
induce firms to lower output on average, but cannot do so.
The designer can only influence correlation.

62

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

for intrinsic but not instrumental reasons.
We can illustrate this case with the example
of section 3.3, also. Suppose that the payoffs
remain the same, but now the government
would like to maximize the probability that
at least one firm invests, so that the government has intrinsic preferences over correlation. But in this case—under our maintained
assumption that x​ > 1/2​—it is possible to
ensure that one firm always invests. Consider
the following decision rule:
θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

0

_
​​  1 ​​

not invest

​​ _12 ​​

0

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

1

0

not invest

0

0

2

,

.

If ​ε​ were equal to ​0​, this decision rule would
be obedient, with all constraints holding
strictly: a firm told to not invest would have a
strict incentive to obey, since it would know
that the state was bad; a firm told to invest
would have a strict incentive to obey, since
its expected payoff will be _​​ 23 ​​(x − ​ _12 ​)​  > 0​.
Because the obedience constraints hold
strictly, this decision rule will continue to be
obedient, for positive or negative ​ε​, as long as​​
| ε |​​is sufficiently small. Note that the government’s objective of maximizing the probability that at least one firm invests necessitates
private signals.
In a dynamic setting, Ely (2017) shows
how an information designer with intrinsic preferences for negative correlation will
optimally use private signals to induce it (he
also shows that this is consistent with players’
strategic objectives). Arieli and Babichenko
(2016) and Meyer (2017) provide a general
analysis of optimal information design when

players have binary actions and the information designer has an intrinsic motive for
correlation, but there is no strategic interaction—and thus no instrumental motive for
caring about correlation. With supermodular
payoffs, public signals are optimal, whereas
with submodular payoffs, private signals
are optimal and it is optimal to minimize
correlation.12
4.2 Tightening Obedience Constraints and
BCE Outcomes
There is never any reason for an information and/or mechanism designer to provide
players with more information than they will
use in making their choices. Giving more
information will impose more incentive constraints on players’ choices, and thus reduce
the ability of an information designer to
attain outcomes that are desirable for him. In
dynamic mechanism design, giving players
information about others’ past reports will
tighten t­ruth-telling constraints. Myerson
(1986) emphasizes that a similar observation
is true in dynamic problems of communication in games; in these games the extra information imposes more obedience constraints
as well. Recall that in our language, communication in games corresponds to information design when the information designer
has no information of her own.
Our examples have illustrated this general
observation: giving players more information will impose more obedience constraints
and thus reduce the set of (BCE) outcomes
that can occur. However, the examples illustrate a more subtle point that is the focus of
Bergemann and Morris (2016a): it is not only
true that sending additional signals reduces
the set of outcomes that can occur; it is
12 In a recent survey on the algorithmic aspects of information design, Dughmi (2017) emphasizes how the structure of the payoff environment impacts the algorithms to
compute the optimal information structure and their computational complexity.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
also possible to construct a partial order on
­arbitrary information structures that exactly
characterizes the notion of “more informative,” and one that corresponds exactly to
adding more obedience constraints.
This was illustrated in our one-player
example with prior information. In that
example, the set of implementable BCE outcomes shrunk in size as the accuracy ​q​of the
prior information increased (as illustrated in
figure 2). As ​q​increases, we are intuitively
giving the player more information. The
additional information is given to the player
not in the form of more signals, but rather
more precise signals.
We will now informally describe how this
observation can be generalized in many
directions. In the one-player case, an information structure reduces to an experiment
in the sense of Blackwell (1951, 1953). He
defines the “more informative” ordering in
terms of a feasibility ordering. An experiment
is said to be more informative than another
experiment if the set of outcomes (joint distributions over actions and states) that can be
induced by decision rules mapping signals
into actions is larger—in any decision problem—under the first experiment.13
Blackwell (1951, 1953) offered an alternative, entirely statistical ordering on
experiments, without reference to actions
or payoffs: one experiment is sufficient for
another if the latter can be attained by adding noise to the former.
We have described an incentive ordering
on experiments: one experiment is more
13 Blackwell (1951, 1953) defines “more informative”
in terms of “risk vectors” rather than joint distributions
between states and action. These two feasibility conditions
are equivalent. Blackwell defines as risk vector the vector
of expected payoffs that can be sustained by a decision
rule measurable with respect to the information structure
alone. The resulting payoff vector is, however, computed
conditional (on the vector) of the true state. It then follows
easily that a larger set of risk vectors is sustained if and only
if a larger set of joint distribution of actions and states is
sustained.

63

incentive constrained than another if the set
of BCE outcomes under the former experiment is smaller (reflecting the tighter obedience constraints) in every decision problem
(or one-player basic game).
Taken together, there is now an elegant set
of connections between Blackwell’s theorem
and the information design problem. One
can show that there is a three-way equivalence between (i) the “more informative”
ordering; (ii) the “sufficiency” ordering; and
(iii) the “incentive-constrained” ordering.
Blackwell’s theorem shows an equivalence
between (i) and (ii). Thus, if an experiment is
“more informative” in the sense of Blackwell,
then—in any decision problem—the set of
BCE outcomes for a given experiment is
smaller under the more informative experiment. There is naturally also a converse. If
an experiment is not more informative than
another, then one can find a decision problem and an outcome that is a BCE for the
first experiment but not for the second.
This equivalence result holds in the oneplayer case for general games, i.e., decision problems with finitely many states and
actions. This result is the one-player special
case of the main result (for many-player
information structures) from Bergemann
and Morris (2016a).
The definition of the incentive ordering, as
well as the definition of the feasibility ordering, generalizes naturally to the many-player
case. Bergemann and Morris (2016a) offer a
new statistical ordering, termed individual
sufficiency, for many players, and show that
is equivalent to the incentive ordering in the
many-player case. Individual sufficiency is
defined as follows. Fix two information structures. A combined information structure is
one where players observe a pair of signals,
corresponding to the two information structures, with the marginal on signal profiles of
each information structure corresponding
to the original information structures. Thus,
there are many combinations of any two

64

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

information structures corresponding to different ways of correlating signals across the
two information structures. One information
structure is now individually sufficient for
another if there is a combined information
structure such that each player’s signal in the
former information structure is a sufficient
statistic for his beliefs about the state of the
world and others’ signals in the latter information structure. A subtle feature of this
ordering is that one information structure
being individually sufficient for another neither implies nor is implied by the property
that players’ joint information in the former
case is sufficient (in the statistical sense) for
their joint information in the latter case. We
should add that in the special case of a single
player individual sufficiency and sufficiency
naturally coincide. The ordering of individual sufficiency has a number of natural
properties. Two information structures are
individually sufficient for each other if and
only if they correspond to the same beliefs
and higher-order beliefs about states, and
differ only in the redundancies of the type
identified in Mertens and Zamir (1985). One
information structure is individually sufficient for another only if we can get from the
latter to the former by providing additional
information and removing redundancies.
In the one-player setting, there is an alternative but equivalent ordering to the feasibility ordering. It is phrased in terms of
optimality and appears more frequently in
the economics, rather than statistic, literature. For example, Laffont (1989) defines
one experiment to be “more valuable” than
another if it leads to (weakly) higher maximal
expected utility for every decision problem.
In a single-player problem, a larger set of
feasible joint distributions clearly implies a
larger maximal expected utility. Less obvious
perhaps, the converse also holds, as the ranking has to hold across all decision problems.
A common observation is that in strategic
situations, there is no many-player analogue

to the “more valuable” ordering: see, for
example, Hirshleifer (1971); Neyman (1991);
Gossner (2000); and Bassan et al. (2003).
The above discussion provides a novel perspective. Intuitively, there are two effects of
giving players more information in a strategic
setting. First, it allows players to condition
on more informative signals, and thus—in
the absence of incentive constraints—attain
more outcomes. Second, more information
can reduce the set of attainable outcomes by
imposing more incentive constraints on players’ behavior. The value of information in
strategic situations is ambiguous in general
because both effects are at work. Following
Lehrer, Rosenberg, and Shmaya (2010),
we can abstract from the second (incentive) effect by focusing on common-interest
games. Here, more information in the sense
of individual sufficiency translates into more
attainable outcomes. But looking at BCE
abstracts from the first (feasibility) effect by
allowing the information designer to supply any information to the players. Now,
more information in the sense of individual sufficiency translates into less attainable
outcomes.
4.3 BCE Outcomes and Information Design
without Concavification
We have described a “two-step” approach
to solving information design problems.
First, provide a linear algebraic characterization of implementable outcomes, meaning
the set of joint distributions over actions
and states that can be induced by some
i­nformation structure that the information
designer might choose to give the players. The set of implementable outcomes is
exactly the set of BCE. Second, we select
among the BCE the one that is optimal for
the information designer. This second step
implicitly identifies the optimal information
structure. The first problem is solved by finding the set of outcomes that satisfy a set of
linear (obedience) constraints. The second

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
problem corresponds to maximizing a linear objective subject to linear constraints.
Both steps of this problem are well behaved.
There is a separate reason why we might
pursue this two-step procedure: for many
questions of interest, it is critical to first
understand the set of BCE outcomes. The
next two s­ubsections describe two contexts
where the structure of the BCE outcomes is
the focus of the analysis.
However, there is a different approach
to information design: concavification. The
“concavification” approach is based on a
geometric analysis of the function mapping
receiver posterior beliefs to sender payoffs.
Concavification focuses more on the “experiments” or the distribution of posteriors that
are induced for the receivers, rather than
on the joint distribution between actions
and states. In the one-person problem, we
can identify the payoff that the information
designer receives for any given probability distribution over states, subject to the
fact that the player will make an optimal
choice. But the information designer has
the ability to split the player’s beliefs about
the state, i.e., supply the player with information that will induce any distribution
over posteriors with the constraint that the
prior equals the expected posterior. This
implies that the set of attainable payoffs for
the information designer, as a function of
prior distributions of states, is the concavification of the set of payoffs of the designer
in the absence of information design. This
c­
oncavification argument (building on
Aumann and Maschler 1995) is the focus of
both Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011) and
the large and important literature inspired
by their work. The many-players case is
significantly harder than the single-player
case, as it is no longer the set of probability distributions over states that matters, but
rather the set of (common prior) subsets
of the universal type space of Mertens and
Zamir (1985) that are relevant for ­strategic

65

a­nalysis. Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva
(2017) describe this generalization of concavification for the many-player case.
Concavification and its many-player
analogue are important for two reasons.
First, they offer structural insights into the
information design problem. Second, they
provide a method for solving information
design problems. As a solution method, the
concavification approach and its generalization do not always help without some special structure. Our own work (Bergemann,
Brooks, and Morris 2015) on (one player)
price discrimination, discussed in the next
section, relies heavily on linear programming; but while the solution must correspond to the concavification of an objective
function, it is very difficult to visualize the
concavification or provide a proof using
it. However, linear programming methods do not always help, either: in our work
on (many player) auctions (Bergemann,
Brooks, and Morris 2017a), neither generalized concavification nor linear programming methods are used in stating or proving
our results (although linear programming
played an important role in supplying conjectures for the results).
5.

Metaphorical Information Design and
Applications

Mechanism design sometimes has a literal interpretation. For example—in some
settings—a seller may be able to commit
to an auction for selling an object. In other
settings, the mechanism design problem is
studied even though there does not exist a
mechanism designer able to commit. For
example, suppose that we are interested in
a buyer and seller bargaining over an object.
There may be no rules for how the players bargain and no one who could enforce
such rules. Nonetheless, Myerson and
Satterthwaite (1983) studied what would be
the optimal mechanism for realizing gains

66

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

from trade because it bounds what could
happen under any bargaining protocol that
ends up being used. In this sense, there is
not a literal mechanism designer, but we
are rather using the language of mechanism
design for another purpose.
Similarly for information design, the most
literal interpretation of the information
design problem is that there is an actual
information designer who can commit to
choosing the players’ information structure
in order to achieve a particular objective. In
many contexts, this commitment assumption
may not be plausible.14 Yet, the information
design perspective can be used to address
many important questions even where there
is not a literal information designer. In particular, understanding the set of outcomes
that an information designer can induce
corresponds to identifying the set of all outcomes that could arise from some information structure.
In our own applications of information
design, we have mostly been interested in
metaphorical interpretations. The set of
BCE is precisely the set of outcomes that can
arise with additional information for a given
basic game and prior information structure. If there are properties that hold for all
BCE, we have identified predictions that are
robust to the exact information structure.
Identifying the best or worst outcome that
can arise under some information structure
according to some objective function as criterion is the same as solving an information
design problem where the designer is maximizing or minimizing that criterion. In this
section, we will review two such economic
applications of information design. We will
highlight the implications of this approach in
the context of third-degree price discrimination (Bergemann, Brooks, and Morris 2015)
14 Forges and Koessler (2005) observe that conditioning
on players’ exogenous information makes sense if players’
types are ex post verifiable.

and a linear interaction game with a focus
on aggregate variance, and macroeconomic
implications (Bergemann, Heumann, and
Morris 2015).
Caplin and Martin (2015) adopt a similar, metaphorical, approach to the recovery
of preference orderings and utility from
choice data. They allow for the possibility
that the decision maker has imperfect information while satisfying Bayes’s law and iterated expectation. They ask what they can
learn from the observed choice data about
the underlying preference profile without
making strong assumptions on the information available to the ­decision maker at the
moment of choice. In related work, Caplin
and Dean (2015) develop a revealed preference test giving conditions under which
apparent choice “mistakes” can be explained
in terms of optimal costly information acquisition by the player in the presence of imperfect information.
5.1 The Limits of Price Discrimination
A classic issue in the economic analysis
of monopoly is the impact of discriminatory
pricing on consumer and producer surplus.
A monopolist engages in third-degree price
discrimination if he uses additional information about consumer characteristics to offer
different prices to different segments of the
aggregate market. Bergemann, Brooks, and
Morris (2015) characterize what could happen to consumer and producer surplus for all
possible segmentations of the market.
One can provide some elementary bounds
on consumer and producer surplus in any
market segmentation. First, consumer surplus must be ­nonnegative as a consequence
of the participation constraint: a consumer
will not buy the good at a price above his
valuation. Second, the producer must get at
least the surplus that he could get if there
was no segmentation and he had no additional information beyond the prior distribution. In this case, an optimal policy is

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
always to offer the product with probability one at a given price to all buyers. We
therefore refer to it as the uniform monopoly price, and correspondingly, uniform
monopoly profit. Third, the sum of consumer and producer surplus cannot exceed
the total social value that is generated
by the good, which is ­
willingness-to-pay
minus unit cost of production. The shaded
right-angled triangle in figure 5 illustrates
these three bounds.
The main result in Bergemann, Brooks,
and Morris (2015) is that every welfare outcome satisfying these constraints is attainable by some market segmentation. This is
the entire shaded triangle in figure 5. If the
monopolist has no information beyond the
prior distribution of valuations, there will
be no segmentation. The producer charges
the optimal monopoly price and gets the
associated monopoly profit, and consumers
receive a positive surplus; this is marked by
point A in figure 5. If the monopolist has
complete information, then he can charge
each buyer his true valuation, i.e., engage in
perfect or first-degree price discrimination;
this is marked by point B. The point marked
C is where consumer surplus is maximized;
the outcome is efficient and the consumer
gets all the surplus gains over the uniform
monopoly profit. At the point marked D,
social surplus is minimized by holding producer surplus down to uniform monopoly
profits and holding consumer surplus down
to zero.
The main result states that we can make
only very weak predictions about producer
and consumer surplus. It can be understood
as the outcome of a set of metaphorical
information design problems. If an information designer wanted to maximize consumer surplus, she would choose point C. If
she wanted to minimize consumer surplus,
or ­producer surplus, or any weighted combination of the two, she could choose point
D. Any other point on the boundary of the

67

triangle is the solution to some maximization
problem of the information designer defined
by some preferences over producer and consumer surplus.
The information design problem has a
very clear literal interpretation in the case
where the monopolist knows the consumer’s
valuation. She can then achieve perfect price
discrimination at point B. However, giving a
literal information design interpretation of
point C is more subtle. We would need to
identify an information designer who knew
consumers’ valuations and committed to
give partial information to the monopolist
in order to maximize the sum of consumers’ welfare. Importantly, even though the
disclosure rule is optimal for consumers as
a group, individual consumers would not
have an incentive to truthfully report their
valuations to the information designer, given
the designer’s disclosure rule, since they
would want to report themselves to have low
values.
As discussed in the previous section, it
seems hard to explain the main result using
concavification, but there is an elementary geometric argument. One can show
that any point where the monopolist is
held down to his uniform monopoly profits with no information beyond the prior
distribution—including outcomes A, C,
and D in figure 5—can be achieved with
the same segmentation. In this segmentation, consumer surplus varies because the
monopolist is indifferent between charging
different prices.
We can use a simple example to illustrate these results. There are three valuations, v​∈ V = ​{1, 2, 3},​​ which arise in
equal proportions, and there is zero marginal cost of production. The feasible social
∗
​  = (1 / 3)​(1 + 2 + 3)​  = 2​.
surplus is w​​ 
​​
The uniform monopoly price is v​​ ​​∗​  = 2​.
Under the uniform monopoly price, profit is​​
π​​  ∗​  = (2/3) × 2 = 4/3​and consumer surplus
is ​​u​​  ∗​  = (1 / 3)​(3 − 2)​  + (1 / 3)​(2 − 2)​  = 1 / 3​.

68

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

Producer surplus (π)

B

D

A

C

Comsumer surplus (u)
Figure 5. The Bounds on Profits and Consumer Surplus in Third-Degree Price Discrimination

A segment ​x​is a vector of probabilities of
each valuation, thus x​ = ​(​x1​ ​​, ​x2​ ​​, ​x3​ ​​)​​, and by
​σ​(x)​​we denote the total mass of a segment
​x​. A segmentation of the market is therefore
a collection of segments x​ ∈ X​and and a
probability distribution ​σ​( ⋅ )​​over the segments. We give an example of a segmentation below. In the example, there are three
segments and each segment is identified by
its support on the valuations indicated by the
set ​​{ · }​​in the superscript. The frequency of
each segment ​x​is given by ​σ​(x)​​:

(16)

Segment

​​x​1​​​

​​x​2​​​

​​x​3​​​

σ(x)

​​x​​  {1, 2, 3}​​

​​  1_2 ​​

​​  1_6 ​​

​​  1_3 ​​

​​  2_3 ​​

​​x​​  {2, 3}​​

0

​​  1_3 ​​

​​  2_3 ​​

​​  1_6 ​​

​​x​​  {1}​​

0

1

0

​​  1_6 ​​

​​x​​  ⁎​​

​​ _13 ​​

​​ _13 ​​

​​ _13 ​​

1

.

The particular segmentation has a number of interesting properties. First, in each
segment, the seller is indifferent between

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
charging as price any valuation that is in the
support of the segment. Second, the uniform
monopoly price, ​​p​​  ∗​  = 2​, is in the support
of every segment. Thus, this particular segmentation preserves the uniform monopoly
profit. If the monopolist charges the uniform monopoly price on each segment, we
get point A. If he charges the lowest value in
the support of each segment (which is also an
optimal price, by construction), we get point
C; and if he charges the highest value in the
support, we get point D.
Roesler and Szentes (2017) consider a
related information design problem in which
a single buyer can design her own information about her value before she is facing a
monopolist seller. While the analysis of the
t­hird-degree price discrimination proceeds
as a one-player application, the arguments
extend to many-player settings. Bergemann,
Brooks, and Morris (2017a) pursue the question of how private information may impact
the pricing behavior in a many-buyer environment. There, we derive results about
equilibrium behavior in the ­first-price auction that hold across all ­common-prior information structures. The results that we obtain
can be used for a variety of applications, e.g.,
to partially identify the value distribution in
settings where the information structure is
unknown and to make informationally robust
comparisons of mechanisms.
5.2 Information and Volatility
Bergemann, Heumann, and Morris
(2015) revisit a classic issue in macroeconomics. Consider an economy of interacting
agents—each of whom picks an action—
where the agents are subject to idiosyncratic
and aggregate shocks. A fundamental economic question in this environment is to ask
how aggregate and idiosyncratic shocks map
into “aggregate volatility”—the variance of
the average action. Versions of this question
arise in many different economic contexts.
In particular, a central question in macro-

69

economics is how aggregate and individual
productivity shocks translate into variation in
GDP. Another classical question is when and
how asymmetric information can influence
this mapping, and in particular exacerbate
aggregate volatility.
These questions are studied in a setting with a continuum of agents whose best
responses are linear in the (expectation of
the) average action of others and in the idiosyncratic as well as aggregate shocks. Shocks,
actions, and signals are symmetrically normally distributed across agents, maintaining
symmetry and normality of the information
structure. The maximal aggregate volatility is
attained in an information structure in which
the agents confound idiosyncratic and aggregate shocks, and display excess response to
the aggregate shocks, as in Lucas (1972) and
more recently in Hellwig and Venkateswaran
(2009), Venkateswaran (2013), and Angeletos
and La’O (2013). Our contribution is to highlight that, in this setting with idiosyncratic and
aggregate shocks, a class of ­noise-free confounding information structures are extremal
and provide global bounds on how much volatility can arise. In particular, for any given variance of aggregate shocks, the upper bound on
aggregate volatility is linearly increasing in the
variance of the idiosyncratic shocks.
In this application, we do not think there is
any economic agent who is able to or wants to
maximize aggregate volatility. But because we
are interested in bounds on aggregate volatility across equilibria of different information
structures, the problem is naturally represented as an information design problem.
The basic setting is that the payoff shock​​
θ​i​​​ of individual ​i​is given by the sum of an
aggregate shock ​θ​and an idiosyncratic shock​​
ε​i​​:​
	​​θ​i​​  ≜ θ + ​ε​i​​  .​
The aggregate shock ​θ​ is common to all agents
and the idiosyncratic shock ​​ε​i​​​ is ­independent

70

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

and identically distributed across agents, as
well as independent of the aggregate shock.
Each component of the payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​ is
normally distributed:
​μ​ ​​
​σ​  2​ ​ 0
​​ ​ ​.​
(17) ​​(​ ​εθ​ ​  ​​​)​  ∼ ​ ​(​ θ​  ​)​, ​ ​ θ​  ​ 
i
( 0 ( 0 ​σ​  2ε​ )
​ )
The variance of the individual payoff shock
​​θ​i​​​can be expressed in terms of the variance
of the sum of the idiosyncratic and the aggregate shock: ​​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ .​​ The correlation (coefficient) ​​ρ​θ​​ ​between the payoff shocks ​​θ​i​​​ and ​​θj​​​​
of any two agents ​i​and ​j​ is:
​σ​  2θ​ ​
(18)	​
ρ​θ​​ ≜ ​ _
 ​  .​
​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ ​
The best response of agent i​​is given by a
linear function
	​​a​i​​  = ​(1 − r)​ ​피i​​​​[​θi​​​]​  + r ​피​i​​​[A]​,​
where ​
A​is the average action. Now, the
results described above regarding the structure of the extremal information structure
hold independently of whether the weight
on the average action, ​r​, is negative (the strategic substitutes case), zero (the purely decision theoretic case), or positive (the strategic
complements case). A striking property is
that the set of feasible correlations between
individual and average actions and individual
and aggregate shocks is independent of ​r​ and
determined only by statistical constraints.
Here we will thus convey the flavor of the
result in a setting where the decision of the
agent is independent of any strategic considerations, thus the ­decision-theoretic case.
It suffices to consider the following
­one-dimensional class of signals:
(19)	​​s​i​​  ≜ λ ​εi​​​  + (1 − λ)θ, ​
where the linear composition of the signal
​​si​​​​is determined by the parameter ​λ ∈ ​[0, 1]​​.

The information structure ​λ​ is noise free in
the sense that every signal ​​s​i​​​is a linear combination of the idiosyncratic and the aggregate shock, ​​ε​i​​​ and ​θ​, and no extraneous noise
or error term enters the signal of each agent.
Nonetheless, since the signal ​​s​i​​​ combines the
idiosyncratic and the aggregate shock with
weights ​λ​ and ​1 − λ​, each signal ​​s​i​​​ leaves
agent i​​with residual uncertainty about
his true individual payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​, unless​
λ = 1 − λ = 1/2​.
In the ­decision-theoretic case, ​r = 0​, the
best response of each agent simply reflects
a statistical prediction problem, namely to
predict the payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​ given the signal ​​si​​​​:
(20)

​​  + λ(1 − ​ρ​θ​​)
(1 − λ) ​ρ​θ
___________________
	​​ai​​​  = 피​[​θi​​​  | ​si​​​]​  = ​ 
  
  
 ​ ​si​​​  .​
​(1 − λ)​​  2​ ​ρθ​ ​​  + ​λ​​  2​  (1 − ​ρ​θ​​  )

The individual prediction problem is more
responsive to the signal ​​s​i,​​​ that is, assigns a
larger weight to ​​s​i​​​if and only if the signal
contains more information about the individual payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​. The noise-free information structure ​λ = 1/ 2​allows each agent to
perfectly infer the individual payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​.
It follows that the responsiveness, and hence
the variance of the individual action ​​σ​  2a​ ​​, is
maximized at ​λ = 1 / 2​:
	​​σ​  2a​ ​  = ​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ ​  .​
Now, to the extent that the individual payoff
shocks, ​​θi​​​​ and ​​θj​,​​​ are correlated, we find that
even though each agent ​i​only solves an individual prediction problem, his actions are
correlated by means of the underlying correlation of the individual payoff shocks, and
the resulting aggregate volatility is:
	​​σ​  2A ​ ​  = ​ρa​ ​​ ​σ​  2a​ ​  = ​σ​  2θ​ ​  .​
We can ask whether the aggregate volatility
can reach higher levels under information
structures different from ​λ = 1 / 2​. As the
information structure departs from ​λ = 1 / 2​,
we necessarily introduce a bias in the signal​​

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
s​i​​​toward one of the two components of the
payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​. Clearly, the signal ​​si​​​​ is losing
its informational quality with respect to the
individual payoff shock ​​θ​i​​​ as ​λ​ moves away
from ​1 / 2​in either direction. Thus, the individual prediction problem (20) is becoming
noisier and in consequence, the response of
the individual agent to the signal ​​s​i​​​ is attenuated. But a larger weight, ​1 − λ​, on the
aggregate shock ​θ​, may support correlation
in the actions across agents, and thus support
larger aggregate volatility. As the response
of the agent is likely to be attenuated, a
t­rade-off appears between bias and loss of
information. We show that the maximal
aggregate volatility:
_ 2

​​(​σ​θ​​  + ​√​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ ​ ​)​​​  ​
​ ​​{var​(A)​}​  = ​ ______________
  
 ​  ​
(21) ​​max​
λ
4
is achieved by the information structure ​​λ​​  ∗​:​
(22) ​​λ​​  ∗​  ≜  ​arg max​
​ ​​{var​(A)​}​ 
λ

​σθ​ ​​
_ ​  ,​
_ ​  < ​  1
  
= ​ _____________
2
2 ​σ​θ​​  + ​√​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ ​ ​
which biases the signal toward the aggregate
shock. We can express the information structure that maximizes the aggregate volatility
in terms of the correlation coefficient ​​ρ​θ​​​:

_
​√​ρ​θ​​ ​
_
	​​arg max​
​ ​​{var​(A)​}​  = ​ 
_ ​  ,​
1 + 2 ​√​ρθ​ ​​ ​
λ

and the maximal volatility can be expressed
as:
_ ​ ​​(1 + ​√_
​ ​​ var​(A)​}​  = ​  1
​ρ​θ​​ ​)​​​  2​​(​σ​  2θ​ ​  + ​σ​  2ε​ ​)​.​
	​​max​
λ {
4

Surprisingly, as we approach an environment
with purely idiosyncratic shocks, the maximal aggregate volatility does not converge to
zero; rather, it is bounded away from zero​​,
and given by ​​σ​  2ε​ ​/4​. Thus, the economy can

71

maintain a large aggregate volatility even in
the presence of vanishing aggregate payoff
shocks by confounding the payoff-relevant
information about the idiosyncratic shock
with the (in the limit) payoff-irrelevant information about the aggregate shock.
6.

Information Design with Private
Information

We have thus far considered the scenario
where the designer knows not only the true
state ​θ​, but also the players’ prior information about the state. We now consider what
happens when the information designer does
not have access to players’ prior information
(but still can condition on the state). Here,
we consider two alternative assumptions
about the designer’s ability to condition recommendations on players’ prior information.
If the designer can elicit the private information, then we have information design
with elicitation. If the designer cannot elicit
the private information, we have information design without elicitation. We present
a s­elf-contained discussion of these extensions and then discuss how—with these
extensions—information design fits into the
mechanism design and incomplete-information-correlated equilibrium literatures more
broadly in sections 6.3 and 6.4.
6.1 Players’ Prior Information is not Known
to the Designer
When the information designer cannot
observe the players’ prior information, she
may or may not be able to ask the players
about it. In the case of information design
with elicitation, she will be able to condition
her recommendations on the reported types.
In the case of information design without
elicitation, she can only send a list of recommendations, namely one recommendation
for each possible type of the player.
In the case of information design with elicitation, the revelation principle still implies

72

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

that we can restrict attention to the case
where the information sent by the information designer consists of action recommendations. However, we will now require an
incentive compatibility condition that entails
­truth telling as well as obedience, so that the
information designer can only condition on
a player’s signal if the player can be given an
incentive to report it truthfully. Following
Myerson (1991, section 6.3), we can think
of the information designer choosing a
decision rule ​
σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​
, but each
type of each player can choose a deviation
​​δi​​​  : ​A​i​​  → ​Ai​​​​with the interpretation that
​​δ​i​​​(​ai​​​)​​is the action chosen by player i​​if the
information designer recommended action
​​ai​​​​. The decision rule ​σ​ is incentive compatible if each player does not have an incentive
to deviate.
DEFINITION 2 (Incentive Compatible): A
decision rule ​σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​is incentive
compatible for ​(G, S)​if for each i​ = 1, …, I​
and ​​t​i​​  ∈ ​T​i​​​,
​  ​  ∑ ​​ui​​​((​ai​​​, ​a−
​ i​​), θ)σ((​ai​​​, ​a−
​ i​​) | (​ti​​​, ​t−
​ i​​), θ)π((​ti​​​, ​t−
​ i​​) | θ) ψ(θ)
a,​ti​​​,θ

≥​  ∑ ​​​​ui​​((​δi​​(​ai​​), ​a​−i​), θ)σ((​ai​​, ​a​−i​) | (​t​i′ ​, ​t​−i​),θ)π((​ti​​, ​t​−i​) | θ)ψ(θ)​
a,​ti​​,θ

for all ​​t​  ′i​ ​ ∈ ​Ti​​​​ and ​​δi​​​  : ​A​i​​  → ​A​i​​​.
The displayed inequality will be referred
to as player ​i​’s type-​​ti​​​​ incentive constraint. It
ensures that player i​​, after observing signal​​
t​i,​​​ finds it optimal to report his signal truthfully and then, after observing and updating
on the information contained in the resulting
action recommendation ​​a​i​​​, finds it optimal to
follow this recommendation. Thus it builds
in both ­truth telling and obedience. In addition, the notion of incentive compatibility
requires that the decision rule is immune
to “double deviations” in which the player
misreports his type to be t​ ​​′i​ ​ (rather than
​​ti​​​​) and disobeys the recommendation of the

designer by choosing ​​δ​i​​​(​ai​​​)​​ rather than ​​ai​​​​.
Thus, incentive compatibility implies, but is
not implied by, separately requiring truth
telling and obedience.
PROPOSITION 2: An information designer
with elicitation can attain a decision rule if
and only if it is incentive compatible.
In the case of information design without
elicitation, the designer cannot condition
the action recommendation on the reported
type, but has to offer a contingent recommendation, a vector of action recommendations, where each individual entry is an
action recommendation for a specific type of
the player, hence contingent on the realized
type. The set of feasible recommendations to
player ​i​is therefore given by ​​B​i​​  = ​​A​i​​​​  ​Ti​​​​​. The
set of player ​i’​s contingent recommendations
therefore has a typical element
	​​b​i​​  : ​T​i​​  → ​Ai​​​  .​
We define ​B = ​∏ Ii=1 ​​ ​B​i​​​and let a generic
­element be given by ​b = (​
b1​ ​​  , …, ​bI​​​) ∈ B​,
and so b(t) = (​​b​1​​​(​​t1​ ​​​), …, ​​bI​​​​(​​tI​​​​)),
We are now interested in contingent
action recommendations ϕ
​: Θ → Δ(B)​
rather than action recommendations.
DEFINITION 3 (Public Feasibility): A
decision rule ​σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​is publicly
feasible if there exists a contingent recommendation ​ϕ : Θ → Δ(B)​such that for each​
a ∈ A​, ​t ∈ T​, and ​θ ∈ Θ​with ​π(t | θ) > 0​,
	​
σ(a | t, θ) = ​ 

∑

​​​ϕ(b | θ).​

​{b∈B:b(t)=a}​

In this case, we say that ​σ​ is induced by ϕ.
Public feasibility is the restriction that a
given player’s contingent recommendation

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
cannot depend on the type of the player
himself nor on the types of the other ­players.
We refer to the above requirement as public
feasibility, since the recommendation vector
cannot be tailored to the private information of the players and it has to be feasible in
the sense that it induces the decision rule ​σ​.
We emphasize that each contingent recommendation ​​bi​​​​is still communicated to each
agent i​​separately and privately, and thus is
not public in the sense of a public announcement to all players.
When I​ = 1​, public feasibility is a vacuous restriction. Every decision rule ​σ​ is
induced by the contingent recommendation
ϕ given by
	​
ϕ(b | θ) = ​ ∏ ​​​  σ(b(t) | t, θ).​
t∈T

Under this choice of ϕ, the components of
the contingent recommendation vector b(t)
are drawn independently. When ​I > 1​, however, public feasibility is a substantive restriction. By recommending to a particular player
a strategy rather than an action, the designer
can condition that player’s action on his type.
By judiciously choosing a distribution over ​B​,
the designer can even correlate the players’
strategies. But she cannot correlate one player’s strategy on another player’s type.
We are not interested in all contingent
recommendations, but rather those that are
obedient in the sense defined earlier, in definition 1. Below, we adapt the definition to
account for the larger space of contingent
recommendations, ​b,​ rather than action recommendations, ​a​.
DEFINITION 4 (Publicly Feasible Obedience): A decision rule ​σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​
is publicly feasible obedient if there exists a
contingent recommendation ​ϕ : Θ → Δ(B)​
such that (​i​) ​ϕ​induces ​σ​​,​ and (​ii​) ​ϕ​ satisfies
obedience in the sense that for each ​i​​,​​​t​i​​  ∈ ​T​i​​​​,​
and ​​b​i​​  ∈ ​B​i​​​​,​

73

​ ​  ∑ ​​ ​ui​​((​bi​​(​ti​​), ​b​−i​(​t​−i​)), θ) ϕ((​bi​​, ​b​−i​) | θ)π((​ti​​, ​t​−i​) | θ)ψ(θ)
​bi​​,​ti​​,θ

≥  ​  ∑ ​​ ​ui​​((​a​i′​​, ​b​−i​(​t​−i​)), θ) ϕ((​bi​​, ​b​−i​) | θ) π((​ti​​, ​t​−i​) | θ) ψ(θ)​
​bi​​,​ti​​,θ

for all ​​a​  ′i​ ​ ∈ ​Ai​​​​.
The displayed inequality will be referred
to as player i​​’s ​(​ti​​​, ​bi​​​)​-publicly feasible obedience constraint. It ensures that player ​i​, after
observing signal ​​t​i​​​and receiving and updating
on the recommendation ​​b​i​​​, finds it optimal to
take the action ​​b​i​​  (​ti​​​)​prescribed by the vector ​​b​i​​​ for his type ​​ti​.​​​ Note that in so far as a
contingent recommendation ​​b​i​​ ​ reveals more
information about the state ​θ​ and thus possibly and indirectly about the type profile ​​t​−i​​​
than just an action recommendation, publicly
feasible obedience will be a more demanding
concept than mere obedience as it allows the
agents to contemplate deviations based on
more accurate information. After all, type ​​t​i​​​ is
able to observe the recommendation tailored
toward him as well as the recommendation
offered to all other types t​ ​​′i​ ​ ≠ ​ti​​​​. To the
extent that the recommendation across types
is not perfectly correlated, it then follows that
the type ​​t​i​​​will receive additional information
through the contingent recommendation
rather than the action recommendation.
PROPOSITION 3: An information designer
without elicitation can attain a decision rule
if and only if it is publicly feasible obedient.
6.2 The Investment Example ­Revisited
We now illustrate information design with
private information using the investment
example introduced earlier in section 3. The
issues that arise in the one-player case with
private information are already interesting and
subtle. Here we do not present any examples
of elicitation with many players. We thus do
not consider any additional issues of public feasibility that only arise in the many-player case.

74

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

We therefore now allow the information of
the firm to be private. The government does
not know the realization of the signal that the
firm observes but can or cannot elicit it.
6.2.1 Information Design with Elicitation
In the case of elicitation, we have a screening problem where the designer offers a recommendation that induces a probability of
investing as a function of the reported signal and the true state. As noted above, we
have three sets of constraints that need to
be satisfied. First, each type has to truthfully report his signal; second, each type has
to be willing to follow the recommendation,
the obedience constraints; and third, double
deviations, by means of misreporting and
disobeying at the same time, must not be
profitable. Kolotilin et al. (2017) refer to this
informational environment as “private persuasion.”15 Kolotilin (2018) pursues a linear
programming approach to identify the optimal information disclosure policy under a
­single-crossing assumption.
A decision rule now specifies the probability of investment ​​p​θt​​​ conditional on the
true state ​θ ∈ ​{B, G}​​and the reported type
​t ∈ ​{b, g}.​​ Thus, as before in section 3.2, a decision rule is now a vector
​ ​​, ​pBg
​ ​​, ​pGb
​ ​​, ​pGg
​ ​​)​​. The information
​p = ​(​pBb
designer offers a recommendation (stochastically) as a function of the true state and the
reported type. The obedience conditions are
as in section 3.2, where information was not
private. A truthful reporting constraint is
15 Bergemann, Bonatti, and Smolin (2018) consider a
model of private persuasion with quasilinear utility. Their
main objective is to analyze the revenue maximizing solution to the information design problem subject to the elicitation constraints. Daskalakis, Papadimitriou, and Tzamos
(2016) also consider an information design with quasilinear
utility. The novel aspect of their analysis is that the object
for sale has many attributes, and the seller chooses optimally how much to disclose about each individual attribute. Their analysis reveals a close relationship to the
classic bundling problem of a multi-item monopolist.

described below for a good type ​t = g​. The
truth-telling constraint for the good type​
t = g​ is:
(23) ​q​p​Gg​​  x − ​(1 − q)​ ​p​Bg​​  ≥ q​p​Gb​​  x − ​(1 − q)​ ​p​Bb​​​,
and correspondingly for the bad type ​t = b:​
(24) ​​(1 − q)​ ​p​Gb​​  x − q​p​Bb​​  ≥ ​(1 − q)​ ​p​Gg​​  x − q​p​Bg​​  .​
By misreporting and then following the
resulting recommendation afterwards, each
type can change the probability of investing.
We can write the above two truth-telling constraints in terms of a bracketing inequality:
1−q
(25) ​​ _
q ​  x​(​p​Gg​​  − ​p​Gb​​)​ ≤ ​p​Bg​​  − ​p​Bb​​ 
q
≤ _
​ 
​  x​ ​p​ ​​  − ​p​Gb​​)​.​
1 − q ( Gg

These inequalities highlight how the differential between type t​ = b​and t​ = g​ in
the recommendation ​​p​Bt​​​in the bad state are
bounded, below and above, by the differential in the recommendation ​​p​Gt​​​ in the good
state. Notice also that since
q
1 − q_
1
_
	​​ _
q ​ ​  x ​  < ​  1 − q ​  x,​

the above bracketing inequality requires that
	​​p​Gg​​  − ​p​Gb​​  ≥ 0, ​p​Bg​​  − ​p​Bb​​  ≥ 0,​
thus, the conditional probability of investing
has to be larger for the good type than the
bad type in either state. An implication specific to the binary action, binary state environment is the fact that double deviations do
not impose any additional restriction on the
behavior of the player. We state and prove
this result formally in the appendix as proposition 6. In particular, this means that the
obedience and truth-telling constraints discussed above imply the incentive compatibility condition of definition 2.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective

75

1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4

0.2
Omniscient with prior info
Elicitation

0
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

pB
Figure 6. Investment Probability with Private Information

With these additional constraints, the set of
outcomes that can arise in equilibrium under
information design with elicitation is weakly,
and typically strictly, smaller than under an
omniscient designer, i.e., the case in the
­previous section where the designer can condition his recommendation directly on the
players’ prior information. The truth-telling
constraints impose restrictions on how the
differences in the conditional probabilities
across types can vary across states. These
impose additional restrictions on the ability
of the government to attain either very low
or very high investment probabilities in both
states, as highlighted by equation (25).
Figure 6 illustrates the case where ​x = 0.9​
and ​q = 0.7​; the dark red region corresponds

to the outcomes that can arise under information design with elicitation; adding in
the pink region, we get back to the triangle
that corresponds to omniscient information
design where the designer knows players’
prior information.
6.2.2 Information Design without
Elicitation
We could also consider a government,
who does not know the signal of the firm and
cannot even elicit it. Kolotilin et al. (2017)
call this scenario “public persuasion.” Such
i­nformation design without elicitation has
been the focus of the recent literature.
Clearly, the designer can replicate any
decision rule without elicitation with a

76

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

­decision rule with elicitation. This i­nclusion
holds without any restrictions on the state
space, the number of players, or the players’
actions. In the specific investment example
above, with a single player, two states, and
two actions, the converse happens to be true
as well. That is, any decision rule attainable
with elicitation can also be attained without elicitation. In other words, in the binary
setting and with a single player, there is no
need for elicitation. The designer can induce
any incentive-compatible decision rule
by recommendations alone. We state and
prove these two results in the appendix as
propositions 5 and 6.16
The equivalence breaks down immediately
if either of the binary assumptions regarding
action and state are relaxed or we consider
more than one player. We illustrate this failure of the equivalence result with a minor
generalization of the investment example. In
particular, in a single-player environment,
we allow the player to either consider a small
or a large investment. For completeness, we
present, in the appendix, examples where
one of the other two hypotheses fails. This
modified example allows us to find a strict
nesting of the set of outcomes without prior
information, with prior information and an
omniscient designer, with elicitation, and
finally without elicitation. For the purpose of
this example, it will be sufficient to focus on
the case of a single player.
6.2.3 Beyond the Binary Setting
Consider the basic investment example
with I​ = 1​, ​Θ = {B, G}​, uniform prior, and
symmetric types that are correct with probability ​q > 1/2​. We now add an ­additional
investment decision, to invest small, to the
16 Kolotilin et al. (2017) showed such an equivalence
under a different set of assumptions. In their model, the
designer and the player are privately informed about distinct payoff states rather than having distinct information
about the same state as in the present setting.

set of feasible actions of the player. The
decision to invest small comes with a higher
rate of return but smaller total return than
the (regular) investment decision. The
payoff from a small investment is ​−1/2​ in
the bad state and ​y ∈ (x/2, x)​in the good
state:

invest

bad state B

good state G

−1

x

invest small

−​_1  ​​

y

not invest

0

0

2

.

For simplicity we restrict attention to decision
rules that put zero probability on the small
investment in equilibrium. We note that the
small investment decision still plays a role in
the characterization of incentive compatible
decision rules as it is a feasible action to the
player. It will hence generate additional obedience constraints that the designer has to
respect as the player has now two possible
deviations from the recommended action,
one of which is to invest at a small scale. The
decision rules—restricted to invest and not
invest—can still be represented by a vector​
​ ​​, ​pGb
​ ​​, ​pGg
​ ​​)​ that records the
p = ( ​pB​ b​​, ​pBg
probability of investing.
As a benchmark, first suppose the player
has no prior information. Then a decision rule that never recommends the small
investment can be represented as a pair
​ ​​) ∈ ​[0, 1]​​  2​​that specifies the proba​( ​p​B​​, ​pG
bility of the large investment in each state.
When the firm has no prior information,
there are two binding obedience constraints,
one for the big investment against the small
investment:
1 ​ ​p​ ​​  , ​
​ ​​  y − ​ _
(26)	​​p​G​​  x − ​p​B​​  ≥ ​pG
2 B

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective

77

1

0.8

pG

0.6

0.4

0.2

Omniscient without prior info
Omniscient with prior info
Elicitation
Without elicitation

0
0

0.2

0.4

pB

0.6

0.8

1

Figure 7. Investment Probability under Different Information Design Scenarios

and one for no investment against the small
investment:17
1 ​​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​.​
	​0 ≥ (1 − ​p​G​​) y − ​ _
B)
2(
The equilibrium regions are depicted in figure 7. If the firm has no prior information,
the government faces only the above two
constraints. The set of attainable decision
rules is described by the light red area. In
contrast to the setting with two investment
17 The other two possible incentive constraints, namely
for the big investment against no investment and for no
investment against the big investment, are supplanted by
the above two.

levels analyzed earlier, there is now a kink
in the area of attainable decision rules that
reflects a change in the binding obedience
constraint, from zero investment to small
investment.
If we consider the case in which the firm
has prior information, then we have three
different communication protocols for the
government. An omniscient designer faces
the obedience constraints that we analyzed
earlier in section 3.2. By contrast, if the firm
holds private information, then the information designer is no longer omniscient. Now
the firm has two possible ways to disobey.
If the government does not observe the signal but can elicit the information from the

78

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

firm, then we have truth-telling constraints
as described by (23) and (24) in addition to
the obedience constraints. Importantly, in this
setting with more than two actions, the possibility of double deviations—misreporting and
disobeying—generates additional constraints
on the incentive compatible decision rules.
Finally, a designer without elicitation faces
additional obedience constraints that rule
out deviations conditional on a particular
vector recommendation. The corresponding
areas in figure 7 illustrate that the sequence
of additional constraints from omniscient to
elicitation to no elicitation impose increasingly more restrictions on the government
and hence generate a sequence of strictly
nested sets.
We already discussed how these three
regimes offer an increasing number of constraints. It remains to discuss the specific
impact of being able to elicit (or not) the
private information. With elicitation, the
player only learns the designer’s recommendation for one type, namely the type that
he reports. But a designer who cannot elicit
must reveal her action recommendations for
all types, hence the contingent recommendation. This enables a player to contemplate
additional contingencies and hence deviations. With three possible actions, as in this
example, there are two additional deviations
that take advantage of this finer information. In particular, the high type can disobey
the recommendation to invest by deviating
to invest small only when the designer also
recommends not to invest to the low type.
Likewise, the low type can disobey the recommendation not to invest by deviating to
invest small only when the designer also
recommends investing to the high type. The
additional options for the player induce further constraints on the information designer.
Naturally, these additional deviations were
not available in the binary action environment. And in fact, the absence of this large
set of deviations accounts for the ­equivalence

between elicitation and no elicitation in the
binary action and state environment.18
We conclude with a few observations
about the comparative statics with respect to
the information structure. As the precision
of the information ​q​decreases toward ​1/2​,
the inner three regions expand outward and
converge to the no-prior-information equilibrium set. By contrast, as the precision ​q​
increases towards ​1,​ the three inner regions
contract and converge to the single coordinate vector ​​(0, 1)​​.
6.3 Information Design within Mechanism
Design
In the information design problem, the
“information designer” can commit to providing information to the players to serve
his ends, but has no ability to choose outcomes (or force the players to take particular actions). The set of available actions and
a mapping from action profiles to outcomes
and thus payoffs is fixed. How does this relate
to “mechanism design”?
Myerson (1982) describes a class of Bayes
incentive problems, which constitutes a
leading definition of mechanism design
(see also Myerson 1987, 1994). In this setting, players may have control over some
actions affecting outcomes but the mechanism designer may be able to commit to pick
other outcomes as a function of the players’ reports. For example, in many classical
mechanism design problems with individual
rationality constraints, players do have control over some actions: participation versus
nonparticipation. And even if the mecha­
nism designer may not have any information
that is unavailable to the players, he can—
via the mechanism—implicitly control the
18 We mentioned earlier that double deviations were
not relevant in the binary environment in the sense that
they do not add additional restrictions. This changes in
the richer environment here, where the communicating
designer indeed faces additional restrictions coming from
the possibility of double deviations.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
i­nformation that players have about each
other. Myerson (1991) then labels the case
where the mechanism designer has no direct
control over outcomes “Bayesian games with
communication” (section 6.3) and the setting
where the designer has complete control
over outcomes “Bayesian collective choice
problems” (section 6.4). Thus, what we are
calling information design corresponds to
Myerson’s Bayesian games with communication with the proviso that the mediator brings
his own information to the table, rather than
merely ­redistributing others’ information.
There is also an important literature on an
informed player (referred to as informed principal) who can commit to choose outcomes as
a function of messages (see Myerson 1983).
But in this setting, the information designer
(principal) is typically assumed to be able to
commit to a mechanism only after receiving
his private information and the principal is
not choosing action herself; see Mylovanov
and Troeger (2012, 2014) and ­Perez-Richet
(2014) for recent contributions. By contrast,
in the information design setting there is a
principal who cannot pick a contract/mechanism but can commit to a disclosure rule
prior to observing her information.
6.4 Correlated Equilibrium and Incomplete
Information
Aumann (1974, 1987) introduced correlated equilibrium as a solution concept
for games with complete information (about
the payoff matrix). He showed that the set
of correlated equilibria equals the set of
distributions over actions that could arise
in a Bayes–Nash equilibrium if players
observed some additional ­payoff-irrelevant
signals (consistent with the common prior).
Equivalently, the set of correlated equilibria
corresponds to the set of outcomes that could
be induced by an (uninformed) information
designer. What we are calling “information
design” thus corresponds to an incomplete
information elaboration of this original

79

rationale for thinking about correlated equilibrium when the information designer has
information of her own.19 In this section, we
review the existing literature on incomplete
information correlated equilibrium to relate
it to the version of incomplete information
correlated equilibrium—BCE—that is relevant for information design.
While Aumann (1987) provides an
information design foundation for complete information correlated equilibrium,
he offers a broader interpretation of the
characterization, arguing that correlated
equilibrium captures the implications of
common knowledge of rationality in a complete information game, under the common
prior assumption.20 A large literature on the
epistemic foundations of game theory has
developed since then (Dekel and Siniscalchi
2015), elaborating on the formal language
and questions suggested by Aumann’s work,
although focused on the case of complete
information without the common prior
assumption. Formal treatment of the implications of common knowledge of rationality
and the common prior assumption under
incomplete information ties in with many of
the issues discussed in this survey; we will
discuss one issue that arises in this case in
the next subsection.
To understand the literature on incomplete information correlated equilibrium, it
is useful to identify two kinds of constraints
in the literature on incomplete information
correlated equilibrium: feasibility conditions
19 Bergemann and Morris (2017) consider foundations
for other solution concepts based on informational robustness and information design considerations, when the
common prior assumption is not maintained.
20 Hillas, Kohlberg, and Pratt (2007) propose a related
alternative foundation for correlated equilibrium. Consider
an external observer who observes an infinite sequence of
plays of a complete information game, has exchangeable
beliefs about them, but does not believe he can offer beneficial advice to players on how to improve their payoffs.
This observer must believe that play corresponds to a correlated equilibrium.

80

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

(constraints on what kind of information
decision rules can condition on) and incentive compatibility conditions (what decision
rules are consistent with optimal behavior).
In this paper so far, we have introduced
one feasibility condition—public feasibility (definition 3)—and three incentive constraints—obedience (definition 1), incentive
compatibility (definition 2) and publicly feasible obedience (definition 4). Recall that
BCE—our characterization of outcomes that
can be induced by an omniscient information designer—imposed only obedience. We
will discuss two further feasibility conditions
to provide an overview of correlated equilibrium with incomplete information.
6.4.1 Belief Invariance
Consider the requirement that the information designer can correlate players’
actions, but without changing players’ beliefs
and higher-order beliefs about the state of
the world. This is formalized as follows.
DEFINITION 5 (Belief Invariant): Decision
rule ​σ : T × Θ → Δ(A)​is belief invariant
​ ​​), θ​) is independent of​​
for (​G, S​) if​​​σ​i​​(​ai​ ​​  | (​ti​ ​​, ​t−i
t​−i​​​​ for each i, ​​a​i​​​, ​​ti​ ​​​, and θ, where
	​σi​​​(​ai​​|​(​ti​​, ​t​−i​)​, θ)​  ≜  ​  ∑ ​​ ​σi​​​(​(​ai​​, ​a​−i​)​|​(​ti​​, ​t​−i​)​, θ)​.
​a​−i​∈​A​−i​

We then say that a decision rule is a
belief-invariant BCE if it satisfies belief
invariance and obedience. It is not obvious
how this feasibility condition arises under
an information design interpretation: if the
designer can condition his information on​
θ​, why not allow him to change beliefs and
higher-order beliefs?
There are two conceptual reasons why one
might nonetheless be interested in belief-invariant BCE. First, Dekel, Fudenberg, and
Morris (2007) introduced the solution concept of interim correlated rationalizability.
They show that it characterizes the implica-

tions of common certainty of rationality and
players’ beliefs and higher-order beliefs. The
solution concept by construction imposes
belief invariance. Liu (2015) observes that
the set of interim correlated rationalizable
actions corresponds to the set of actions that
can be played in a correlated equilibrium
with incomplete information and subjective
priors. If, then, the common prior assumption is imposed, this corresponds to the set of
belief-invariant Bayes-correlated equilibria.
Thus, the solution concept of belief-invariant
BCE is the “right” one for understanding the
implications of common knowledge assumptions under the common prior assumption.
Second, Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva
(2017) consider a situation where the information designer can convey information
only about beliefs and ­higher-order beliefs,
but is not able to send additional information
about correlation. Now the set of belief-invariant BCE, once some ­higher-order belief
information has been sent, is equal to the
set of BCE. Bergemann and Morris (2016a)
describe how an arbitrary information structure can be decomposed into information
about beliefs and ­higher-order beliefs, and
additional ­belief-invariant signals.
6.4.2 Join Feasibility
Twenty five years ago, Forges (1993)
(see also Forges 2006) gave an overview of
incomplete information correlated equilibrium. A maintained assumption in that literature was that the information designer (or
“mediator”) did not bring any information of
her own to the table, but simply ­rearranged
information, telling players privately about
others’ information. This can be formalized
as follows.
DEFINITION 6 (Join Feasibility): Decision
rule σ
​ : T × Θ → A​is join feasible for
(​G, S​) if ​σ(a | t, θ​) is independent of θ​​​,​ i.e.​,​
​σ(a | t, θ) = σ(a | t, θ′)​for each t​ ∈ T​​,​ ​a ∈ A​​,​
and ​θ, ​θ′ ​  ∈ Θ​.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
Thus, join feasibility allows the designer
to use the join of the private information of
all the players, the information contained in
the entire type profile t​.​ At the same time,
it requires that the information designer can
send information only about the type profile
of the players and thus can only condition on
the type profile, not on the state of the world​
θ​ or ​​θ′ ​​. Join feasibility is imposed implicitly
in some work on incomplete information
correlated equilibrium—Forges (1993) integrates out uncertainty other than the players’
types—but explicitly in others, e.g., Lehrer,
Rosenberg, and Shmaya (2010).
As noted in the introduction, information
design adds to the old incomplete information correlated literature the twist that the
designer brings information of her own to
the table. In turn, this allows the designer to
choose the optimal design and provision of
the information to the players.
Forges’s 1993 paper was titled “Five
Legitimate Definitions of Correlated
Equilibrium in Games with Incomplete
Information.” The feasibility and incentive
conditions described so far allow us to completely describe the five solution concepts
she discusses:
(i) A Bayesian solution is a decision rule
satisfying join feasibility and obedience.
(ii) A belief invariant Bayesian solution is a
decision rule satisfying join feasibility,
belief invariance, and obedience.
(iii) An agent normal form correlated
equilibrium is a decision rule satisfying join feasibility, public feasibility,
(which implies belief invariance) and
obedience.
(iv) A communication equilibrium is a decision rule satisfying join feasibility and
incentive compatibility (which implies
obedience).

81

(v) A strategic form correlated equilibrium
is a decision rule satisfying join feasibility and publicly feasible obedience
(which implies belief invariance, public feasibility, obedience, and incentive
compatibility).
Thus, the Bayesian solution, communication equilibrium, and strategic form correlated equilibrium correspond to omniscient
information design, information design with
elicitation, and information design without
elicitation, respectively. The belief invariant
Bayesian solution and the agent normal form
correlated equilibrium do not have natural
information design interpretations.
Forges (1993) noted inclusions implied by
these definitions. In particular, if we write​​
(n)​​for the set of incomplete information correlated equilibria of type ​n​above, we have
	​(5) ⊆ (3) ⊆ (2) ⊆ (1) and
(5) ⊆ (4) ⊆ (1)​.
Forges (1993) reports examples showing
that these inclusions are the only ones that
can be shown, i.e., there exist decision rules
that (i) are Bayesian solutions but not belief
invariant BCE or communication equilibria; (ii) are belief invariant Bayes solutions
but not communication equilibria or agent
normal form correlated equilibria; (iii) are
communication equilibria but not belief
invariant Bayesian solutions; (iv) are belief
invariant Bayesian solutions and communication equilibria but not agent normal
form equilibria; (v) are agent normal form
correlated equilibria but not communication equilibria; (vi) are agent normal form
correlated equilibria and communication
equilibria.
Forges (1993) discusses one more solution
concept: the universal Bayesian solution. The
universal Bayesian solution corresponds—in
our language—to the set of Bayes-correlated

82

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

equilibria that would arise under join feasibility if players had no information.
7. Information Design with Adversarial
Equilibrium and Mechanism Selection
We have so far examined settings where
the revelation principle holds: we can, without loss of generality, assume that the set of
signals, or types, is equal to the set of actions.
We now consider two natural extensions of
information design where the revelation
principle breaks down.
7.1 Adversarial Equilibrium Selection
In section 2, it was implicitly assumed
that the information designer could, having designed the information structure, also
select the equilibrium to be played. With one
player, the equilibrium selection problem
reduces to breaking ties and is not of substantive interest. However, Carroll (2016)
and Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva (2017)
highlighted that this issue is of first-order
importance in the many-player case, and that
the revelation principle argument breaks
down and alternative arguments must be
used; Mathevet, Perego, and Taneva (2017)
formalize and analyze the case where players with no prior information will choose the
worst equilibrium for the designer.
For our representation, we define a
“communication rule” for the information
designer. Players have the prior information encoded in the information structure
I
​S = ​
(​​(​Ti​​​)​​  i=1​, π).​​ The information designer
sends each player i​
​an extra message
​​mi​​​  ∈ ​Mi​,​​​ according to rule ​ϕ : T × Θ → Δ​(M)​​,
where ​
M = ​M​1​​  × ⋯ × ​M​I​​​. A communiI
cation rule is then ​C = ​
(​​(​M​i​​)​​  i=1​, ϕ)​​. Now
the basic game ​
G,​ the prior information
structure S
​,​ and the communication rule​
C​describe a Bayesian game (​​G, S, C)​​.21 A
21 Bergemann and Morris (2016a) call the pair (​S, C​) an
“expanded information structure.”

­strategy for player ​i​in this game is a mapping
​​b​i​​  : ​T​i​​  × ​M​i​​  → Δ​(​A​i​​)​​. A communication
rule ​C​and strategy profile ​b​will now induce
a decision rule
	​σ​(a | t, θ)​ = ​  ∑ ​​ ϕ​(m | t, θ)​​ ​∏​ ​​​bi​​​(​ai​​​| ​ti​​​, ​mi​​​)​ ​.​
( i

m∈M

)

We will write ​E​(C)​​for the set of Bayes–Nash
equilibria of the game with communication
rule ​C​. We can now give a more formal statement of proposition 1.
PROPOSITION 4: Decision rule ​σ​is a BCE
of (​G, S​) if and only if there exists a communication rule ​C​and a Bayes–Nash equilibrium ​b ∈​ ​E(C)​that induce ​σ​.
This is a revelation principle argument
that was formally stated as theorem 1 in
Bergemann and Morris (2016a).
Recall that in section 2, we defined the
information designer’s utility from BCE ​σ​:
	​
V(σ) = ​  ∑ ​​​v​(a, θ)​  σ​(a | t, θ)​  π​(t | θ)​  ψ​(θ)​.​
a,t,θ

We can also define the information designer’s utility from communication rule ​C​ and
strategy profile ​b​:
( i

)

​V​​ ∗​​(C, b)​= ​  ∑ ​​v​(a, θ)​​ ​∏​ ​​b​i​​(​ai​​| ​ti​​, ​mi​​)​​  ∑ ​​ ϕ​(m | t, θ)​ ​π​(t | θ)​ψ​(θ)​.​
θ, t, a

m∈M

Let us consider the problem of an information designer who can pick both the communication rule and the equilibrium and is thus
solving the problem
	​​max​
​ ​ ​  max​ ​​ ​V​​  ∗​​(C, b)​.​
C

b∈E​(C)​

Proposition 4 established that
​ ​ ​  max​ ​​ ​V​​  ∗​​(C, b)​  = ​  max​ ​​  V​(σ)​.​
	​​max​
C

b∈E​(C)​

σ∈BCE

But one could also consider the problem of
an information designer who can pick the
communication rule, but wants to maximize

83

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
his utility in the worst equilibrium, and is
thus solving the problem
​ ​ ​  min​ ​​ ​V​​  ∗​​(C, b)​.22​
	​​max​
C

b∈E​(C)​

We now discuss three applications where
maxmin information design problems have
been motivated and studied; in each application, players have prior information. First,
Carroll (2016) considers the problem of
bilateral trade where he wants to know the
worst possible gains from trade for a given
distribution over the known private values
of a buyer and a seller. If we picked the
worst equilibrium, we could always support
no trade with probability one, so instead he
considers the best equilibrium. This is equivalent to having an information designer pick
an information structure to minimize the
efficiency of trade anticipating that the buyer
and seller will play an equilibrium that maximizes efficiency (i.e., maximizes the gains
from trade).
Second, Inostroza and Pavan (2017) consider global game models of regime change
and the problem of an information designer
trying to minimize the probability of regime
change (they are motivated by the design of
stress tests to minimize the probability of a
run on a bank). What information should the
information designer send—as a function of
the state and players’ initial information—to
minimize the probability of a run? They call
this scenario “discriminatory” because the
information designer can condition on players’ prior information. As in Carroll’s bilateral
trade problem, the problem is not interesting if the designer is able to pick the equilibrium as well as the information structure:
in this case, he can prevent the possibility
22 ​Of course, the minmax problem ​m ​ in​ ​ max​​ ​V​​  ∗​​(C, b)​ is

of inefficient outcomes by creating common
knowledge of payoffs and picking the good
equilibrium. To make the problem interesting, they then study the maxmin problem.
Finally, a literature on robustness to
incomplete information (Kajii and Morris
1997) can be understood as an information
design problem with adversarial equilibrium
selection. We will give an example to illustrate this connection.23 We will consider a
slightly adapted version of the incomplete
information investment game discussed earlier with payoffs:
θ=B

invest

not invest

invest

x, x

not invest

0, −1

−1, 0

θ=G

invest

not invest

invest

x, x

x, 0

not invest

0, −1

0, 0

0, 0

,

for some 0
​ < x < 1​
, and the probability
of state ​G​ is ​ε​, and ​ε​ is small. Assume that
the prior information is that player ​1​knows
the state and player ​2​knows nothing. Thus,
player ​1​has a dominant strategy to invest in
state ​G,​ while there are multiple equilibria
in the complete information game corresponding to state ​B.​ In this setting, we can
study the standard information design (with
prior information) described above. Suppose
that the information designer wants to maximize the probability that at least one player
invests. Maintaining the assumption that
the designer can pick the equilibrium, the
answer is trivial: the information designer
can simply give the players no additional

C b∈E​(C)​

a reinterpretation of a maxmin problem where the objective is replaced by − ​V​​  ∗​​(C, b)​. The minmin problem is similarly a reinterpretation of the maxmax problem. ​

,

23 See also Hoshino (2017) on this connection.

84

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

information and there will be an equilibrium
where players always invest.
But what if the information designer
anticipated that the worst equilibrium would
be played? This is information design with
adversarial equilibrium selection. What
information structure would the information designer choose and what would be the
induced probability that at least one player
invests? It is convenient and more transparent to the describe information structures
using the language of ​partitions​.
Consider the information structure defined
by a set ​Ω = ​{1, 2, … , ∞}​​ where player ​1​
observes an element of the partition:
	​​(​{1}​, ​{2, 3}​, ​{4, 5}​, … , ​{∞}​)​,​
and player 2​​observes an element of the
partition:
	​​(​{1, 2}​, ​{3, 4}​, … , ​{∞}​)​.​
Thus, an element of the partition now constitutes a signal realization. Let payoffs be
given as defined by the payoff state ​θ = G​
if 1 ∈ σ is realized and by the payoff state​
θ = B​everywhere else. For some ​q ∈ ​(_​  12 ​  , 1)​​,
let the probability of state ω
​ ≠ ∞​ be​
ω

​  q ​
ε ​​(____
)​​  ​ and so the probability of state​
1−q

∞​ is ​1 − ​_____
​  ε​ (if ​ε​ is sufficiently small).
2q − 1
This information structure could arise from
the prior information described above (only
player 1​​can distinguish between states​
B​and ​
G)​ and communicating additional
1
____​
information. Now suppose that q
​ > ​  1 +
x
; this condition implies that a player assigning probability ​q​to the other player investing will always have a strict incentive to
invest. Following the induction argument
of Rubinstein (1989), invest is the unique
rationalizable action for both players at all
states ​ω ≠ ∞​. To see this, observe that at
state 1​,​ player 1​​has a dominant strategy
q

to invest. Now player ​2,​ with information
set ​​{1, 2}​​, must have a best response to invest,
since he attaches probability ​q​ to player ​1​
investing. Now suppose that we have established that both players are investing at
information sets of the form {
​​ ω, ω + 1}​​ if
​ω ≤ k​. Now consider the player with information set ​​
{k + 1, k + 2}​​. He attaches
probability ​q​to the other player being at
information set ​​
{k, k + 1}​​ and therefore
investing. So the player with information set​​
{k + 1, k + 2}​​will invest. This argument
establishes that it is possible to ensure that—
if ​ε​ is sufficiently small—both players invest
q
​  ε​. Since this is true for
with probability ​​ _____
2q − 1
1 ​, it implies that it is possible to
any ​q > ​ ____
1+x
get both players to invest with probability
arbitrarily close to

1/​(1 + x)​
1 ​  ε.​
   ​  ε = ​ _
	​​ ___________
1−x
2 /​(1 + x)​  − 1

The information structure we used to get
arbitrarily close to this bound was (countably) infinite, but we can also get arbitrarily
close using finite information structures
as shown in Kajii and Morris (1997). Now,
arguments from Kajii and Morris (1997)
imply that this information structure is (arbitrarily close to) optimal for the information
designer in this problem. To get a flavor of
the argument, say that a player ​p​-believes
an event if he attaches probability at least​
p​to the event occurring, and that there is
common ​p​-belief of that event if each player
​p-​believes it, each player p
​​-believes that
both p
​-​believe it, and so on. One can
show that not invest is rationalizable only
x ​ - belief that pay____
if there is common ​​ 
1+x
offs c­orrespond to state B
​​. But since​
x ​ > ​  1
_​​ and one
x < 1​
, it follows that ____
​​ 1 +
x
2
can show that if the event that p
­ayoffs
are given by state B
​​has probability at
least ​1 − ,
ε​ then—for sufficiently small
​ε​
—the ex ante probability that there is
x ​  
-belief that the state is ​B​ is
­common ____
​​  1 +
x

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
1
____​ε​. This establishes that the
at least ​1 − ​  1 −
x

bound is tight. If ​x > 1​, similar arguments
can be used to show that the information
designer can ensure that both players invest
with probability ​1​.
Arguments from Kajii and Morris (1997)
and the follow-up literature (Ui 2001 and
Morris and Ui 2005) can be used to analyze
maxmin payoffs more generally when—as in
the above example—the incomplete information game has each player either knowing that
payoffs are given by a fixed complete information game or having a dominant strategy.
It is worth emphasizing that the above
definition of the maxmin problem, and all
three applications, correspond to the omniscient case where the information designer
can condition on players’ prior information as
well as on the state. An alternative case that
has been studied is when the information
designer can only send public signals and only
condition on the state (and not players’ prior
information). Goldstein and Huang (2016)
and Inostroza and Pavan (2017) have studied
this problem in global game models of regime
change. (Inostroza and Pavan 2017 call this
the ­nondiscriminatory case, to contrast with
the discriminatory case described previously.)
This case can be illustrated by our example
above. An information designer interested in
maximizing the probability of both investing
would send a public signal to invest always if
ε  ​ x​
the state was good and with probability ____
​​ 1 −
ε
if the state was bad. This would make player 2
indifferent between investing and not investing if he got the “invest” signal.
7.2 Adversarial Mechanism Selection
We considered an information designer
who was choosing additional information
for the players, holding fixed the basic game
and players’ prior information. But what
if the information designer had to pick the
information structure not knowing what the

85

basic game, or mechanism, was going to
be? In particular, suppose that the choice of
mechanism was adversarial. Again, we will
lose the revelation principle. Once the information designer has picked the information
structure (and thus the set of signals), the
adversarial mechanism designer could pick a
mechanism with a different set of messages.
Bergemann, Brooks, and Morris (2016)
consider the problem of an information
designer picking an information structure
for a set of players with a common value of
an object to minimize revenue, anticipating that an adversarial mechanism designer
will then pick a mechanism to maximize
revenue (a minmax problem). This gives an
upper bound on the revenue of the seller
of a single object who is picking a mechanism anticipating that the worst information
structure will be chosen (a maxmin problem). Du (2018) constructs elegant bounds
for the latter problem and shows that these
bounds are sharp in the limit as the number
of bidders increases. The former establishes
the equivalence between minmax and maxmin exactly when there are two bidders and
when the support of the value is binary, and
the latter solves the auction design problem
in the limit when the number of bidders goes
to infinity. In a recent paper, Brooks and Du
(2018) provide a general solution to the common value auction problem with a general
common prior and a finite number of bidders. Both problems are studied without the
common prior assumption by Chung and Ely
(2007).
8.

Conclusion

We have provided a unified perspective for a rapidly expanding literature on
Bayesian persuasion and information design.
In contrast with the recent literature on
Bayesian persuasion that is concerned with
a single player (receiver), we emphasized
the implications of information design for

86

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

many-player strategic environments. We
­
presented a two-step approach to information design: first identify the set of outcomes
that are attainable under some information
structure, then identify the optimal information structure. We have described the close
connection between the information design
problem and the earlier literature on correlated equilibrium with incomplete information; but whereas players are receiving
real payoff-relevant information in the information design problem, in the older correlated equilibrium literature, the designer
(mediator) was merely providing correlating
devices.
We have focused on a pure version of the
static information design problem where the
designer has no ability to control outcomes.
But—as argued in Myerson (1982) and
Myerson (1987) and discussed in section 6.3—
there are settings where a designer can control some outcomes (as a function of players’
messages), but cannot control others and then
can only use information to influence the outcomes outside her control. In other settings,
the principal may be able to jointly choose the
mechanism and the information structures.
For example, Bergemann and Pesendorfer
(2007) consider the optimal design of information structure and auction format in an
independent private value environment.
More recently, Daskalakis, Papadimitriou,
and Tzamos (2016) solve for the optimal
auction and information structure when the
seller and the bidders each have some private
information about the valuation of the object.
Their analysis is motivated by online advertising auctions, where the t­wo-way information
asymmetry among seller and bidder is a central feature of the environment.
As one moves into dynamic settings,
an overlap between the tools of information design and mechanism design more
­generally become more central. A specific
setting where the tools of mechanism design
and information design have recently been

studied in conjunction is the area of markets with resale. Here, the information that
is disclosed in the first stage fundamentally
affects the interaction in the resale market, see for example Calzolari and Pavan
(2006); Dworczak (2017); Carroll and Segal
(forthcoming); and Bergemann, Brooks, and
Morris (2017b).
The information design problem—
whether literal or metaphorical—identifies
a mapping from the economic environment
to possible outcomes, allowing for different
choices of information structures. There is
a second, reverse use of information design
for robust identification, identifying a mapping from outcomes to possible parameters
of the economic environment, allowing that
different information structures might have
generated the data.24 For example, in an auction setting, one might consider a sample of
bids from a sequence (or ­cross-section) of
independent auctions. We can then ask what
we can infer about the underlying distribution of valuations under weak assumptions
on the information structure, that is without
assuming a specific information structure.
Syrgkanis, Tamer, and Ziani (2017) pursue
such an approach for inference and identification in an auction setting. Magnolfi and
Roncoroni (2017) adopt a similar perspective
in the analysis of discrete games, in particular entry and exit games.
Many interesting avenues remain open in
information design. There are many open
methodological questions. The concavification approach has been very influential in the
single-player (receiver) setting, so it is natural
to ask if it can be as useful in the many-player
setting. In both the linear programming and
the concavification approach, the optimal
information structure is identified by a global
optimization problem. It might be insightful to find a more local approach that could
24 This reverse use is exposited in Bergemann and
Morris (2013b).

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
identify the direction of valuable information
provision. We briefly mentioned a number
of applications of information design in the
introduction. Digital information is becoming
widely used in the allocation and distribution
of services and commodities, as in traffic navigation apps such as Waze or Google Maps,
recommender systems used by Netflix and

87

Amazon, or service platforms such as Uber
or OpenTable. This suggests that information
design will naturally be part of the solution
of a large class of allocation problems. To the
extent that the relevant information is arriving sequentially and improving over time, the
resulting models will likely incorporate and
address dynamic aspects.

Appendix
Additional Computation for Section 3.2
We observed in section 3.1 that, absent any additional information beyond the common
prior, the firm does not invest. For any additional private information of the firm to change the
“default” behavior, it has to be that the firm is investing after receiving the good signal, or that
1−q
1
_
(28)	​
qx + ​(1 − q)​​(− 1)​  ≥ 0 ⇔ x ≥ ​ _
q ​  ⇔ q ≥ ​  1 + x ​  .​
In other words, the information has to be sufficiently precise—thus ​q​sufficiently large—to
induce a change in the behavior.
Conditional on being type ​g,​the firm will have an incentive to invest (when told to invest)
​ ​​, ​pBg
​ ​​, ​pGb
​ ​​, ​pGg
​ ​​)​​ if
under ​p = ​(​pBb
​pB​ g​​
1 − q_
1 ​​ 1 − q ​ ​p​ ​​  + ​ _
1 ​  q​p​ ​​  x ≥ 0 ⇔ ​p​ ​​  ≥ ​ _
(29)	​
− ​ _
​ ​  x ​  , ​
Bg
Gg
Gg
(
)
q
2
2
and an incentive to not invest (when told to not invest) if
​p​Bg​​
1 − q_
1 − q_
1 ​​ 1 − q ​​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​  + ​ _
1 ​  q​ 1 − ​p​ ​​ ​  x ⇔ ​p​ ​​  ≥ ​ _
1
(30) ​0 ≥ − ​ _
​ ​  x ​  + 1 − ​ _
Bg)
Gg)
Gg
(
)
(
(
q
q ​ ​  x ​  .​
2
2
A similar pair of incentive constraints apply to the recommendations conditional on being type​
b​.
As long as the private information of the firm is sufficiently noisy, or ​q ≤ 1/​(1 + x)​​, the
binding constraint is (29) as in the uninformed case; otherwise it is the inequality (30) that
determines the conditional probabilities. The obedience conditions for the firm observing a
bad type ​b​are derived in an analogous manner. The obedience conditions are defined type
by type, and we compute the restrictions on the conditional probabilities averaged across
​ ​​  , ​pBg
​ ​​  , ​pGb
​ ​​  , ​pGg
​ ​​)​​will induce behavior (​​ ​pB​ ​​  , ​pG
​ ​​)​​ integrating
types. Now the decision rule ​​(​pBb
b,
g
.
​​
over types ​t ∈ ​
{ }

88

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)
Additional Results for Section 6.2

For a given Bayesian game ​(G, S)​, let E​(G, S)​, respectively, NE​(G, S)​, denote the set of decision rules that can be attained with and without elicitation, respectively.
PROPOSITION 5: For each ​(G, S)​, we have
	​
NE(G, S)   ⊆ E(G, S).​
PROOF:
Let ​σ ∈​ ​NE​​(G, S)​, and let ϕ be an obedient contingent recommendation that induces ​σ​. To
show that ​σ ∈ E(G, S)​, we will verify that ​σ​ is incentive compatible.
Fix player i​​, types ​​ti​​​, ​t​  ′i​ ​ ∈ ​Ti​​​​, and a function ​​δi​​​  : ​A​i​​  → ​Ai​​​​. For each strategy ​​bi​​​  ∈ ​Bi​​​​, take​​
a​  ′i​ ​ = ​δi​​​  (​bi​​​  (​t​  ′i​ ​))​in player ​i​’s ​(​ti​​​, ​bi​​​ )​publicly feasible obedience constraint. Then sum the resulting inequalities over ​​b​i​​  ∈ ​Bi​​​​. After regrouping the summation, we have
  ​ ​ 

(

∑

​​​​ ​ 

∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​​((​bi​​​  (​ti​​​), ​b−i
​ ​​  (​t−i
​ ​​  )), θ)​  ϕ((​bi​​​, ​b−i
​ ​​) | θ) ​  π(​ti​​​, ​t−i
​ ​​  |θ) ψ(θ)
)

​t−
​ i​​∈​T−
​ i​​, θ∈Θ (​bi​​​, ​b−
​ i​​)∈B

	  ≥ ​ 

∑

(
​​​​ ​ 

∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​​((​δi​​​  (​bi​​​  (​t​  i′​  ​)), ​b​−i​​  (​t​−i​​)), θ)​ϕ((​bi​​​, ​b​−i​​) | θ) ​  π(​ti​​​, ​t​−i​​  |θ) ψ(θ).​
)

​t​−i​​∈​T​−i​​, θ∈Θ (​bi​​​, ​b​−i​​)∈B

We focus on the term in parentheses on each line. In the first line, group the summation
​ ​​  (​t−i
​ ​​ ))​and use the fact that ϕ induces ​σ​ to obtain
according to the value of ​(​bi​​​  (​ti​​​  ), ​b−i
​ ​​  ), θ) σ((​ai​​​, ​a−i
​ ​​)  | (​ti​​​, ​t−i
​ ​​), θ).​
	​​  ∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​  ((​ai​​​, ​a−i
(​ai​​​, ​a−
​ i​​)∈A

​ ​​  (​t−i
​ ​​  ))​ and use the
In the second line, group the summation according to the value of ​(​bi​​​  (​t​  ′i​ ​), ​b−i
fact that ϕ induces ​σ​ to obtain
	​​  ∑ ​​​ ​ui​​​  ((​δi​​​  (​ai​​​), ​a​−i​​), θ) σ((​ai​​​, ​a​−i​​) | (​t​  ′i​ ​, ​t​−i​​  ), θ).​
(​ai​​​, ​a​−i​​)∈A

Substituting these expressions into the inequality gives player i​​’s type-​​ti​​​​ incentive constraint
with deviation ​​t​  ′i​ ​, ​δi​​​​. Since ​i, ​ti​​​, ​t​  ′i​ ​, ​δi​​​​are all arbitrary, the proof is complete. ∎
PROPOSITION 6: Let ​(G, S)​be a Bayesian game with ​I = 1​. If ​|A |   = 2​ and ​|Θ |   = 2​, then
	​
NE(G, S) = E(G, S).​
PROOF:
By proposition 5, it suffices to prove ​NE​​(G, S ) ⊇ E(G, S)​. First, we simplify the notation. Label the states and actions so that ​Θ = {G, B}​and ​A = {0, 1}​. If either action is weakly
dominant, the desired result can be verified by directly computing ​NE​​(G, S)​and ​E(G, S)​.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective

89

Therefore, we assume u
​(1, G )  − u(0, G)​and u
​(1, B )  − u(0, B)​are each nonzero and
have o­pposite signs. Then without loss, we may assume the payoffs take the form​
u(0, G) = u(0, B) = 0​, ​u(1, B) = − 1​, and ​u(1, G) = x > 0​.25 Action ​1​can be interpreted
as investment. We will represent a decision rule ​σ​by a vector ​p = ​( ​pθ​ t​​  )​(θ, t)∈Θ×T​​​, where​​
p​θt​​  = σ(1 | θ, t)​. For each signal ​t ∈ T​, let
ψ(G ) π(t | G)
	​
q(t )   = ​ ___________
 ​  ,​
π(t)

where ​π(t )   = ψ(G ) π(t | G )  + ψ(B ) π(t | B ) > 0​by assumption.
Let ​p = ( ​p​θt​​  )   ∈ E(G, S)​. To show that ​p ∈​ ​NE​​(G, S)​, we will explicitly construct an
obedient contingent recommendation ϕ that induces ​p.​ Let t​, ​t′ ​  ∈ T​and set ​q = q(t)​ and​​
q′ ​  = q(​t′ ​)​. Since ​p​satisfies the truth-telling constraint,
​ ​​   ≥ q​pG​
​ t′ ​​​  x − (1 − q) ​pB​
​ t′ ​​​  ,
	​
q​pG
​ t​​  x − (1 − q) ​pBt
q′ ​ ​ pGt
​ ​​  x − (1 − ​q′ ​) ​ pBt
​ ​​  .​
	​
q′ ​ ​ p​G​t′ ​​​  x − (1 − ​q′ ​) ​p​B​t′ ​​​   ≥ ​
Taking ​(1 − ​q′ ​, 1 − q)​ and ​(​q′ ​, q)​linear combinations of these two inequalities respectively
yields
	​(q − ​q′ ​) ( ​pG
​ t​​  − ​p​G​t′ ​​​  ) x ≥ 0

and

(q − ​q′ ​) ( ​p​Bt​​  − ​p​B​t′ ​​​  ) ≥ 0.​

​ t′ ​​​​ for ​θ ∈ {G, B}​. In the case ​q = ​q′ ​​, both inequalities must
So ​q(t ) < q(​t′ ​)​ implies ​​pθ​ t​​  ≤ ​pθ​
hold with equality so
	​
q( ​pG
​ t​​  − ​p​G​t′ ​​​  )x = (1 − q ) ( ​p​Bt​​  − ​p​B​t′ ​​​  ),​
and hence ​​p​Gt​​  ≥ ​pG​
​ t′ ​​​​if and only if ​​p​Bt​​  ≥ ​pB​
​ t′ ​.​​​ Therefore, we can label the signals ​​t​1​​, …, ​tn​ ​​​
so that
(31)	​
q( ​t​1​​  )   ≤ ⋯ ≤ q( ​tn​ ​​  )

and ​p​θ​t​1​​ ​​ ≤ ⋯ ≤ ​pθ​
​ t​n​​ ​​ for θ = B, G.​

To simplify notation, define ​​q​l​​  = q( ​tl​​​  )​ for each ​l = 1, …, n​; set ​​p​θ​t​0​​ ​​ = 0​ and ​​p​θ​t​n+1​​ ​​ = 1​ for
all ​θ​. For each ​k = 1, …, n + 1​, define the cutoff strategy ​​b​​  k​​ by
	​​b​​  k​ ( ​tl​​​  )   = ​ 1​
{0

if l ≥ k​ ​​​
otherwise.

25 First, swap the labels ​G​and ​B​if needed to obtain ​u(1, G ) − u(0, G ) > 0​. Then rescale the utility function so that​
u(1, G ) − u(0, G ) = 1​. Finally, translate the functions ​u( ⋅ , G)​and ​u( ⋅ , B)​separately so that ​u(0, G ) = u(0, B ) = 0​. The
separate translations may change the agent’s preferences over states but not over actions.

90

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

In particular, ​​b​​  1​​is unconditional investment and ​​b​​  n+1​​is unconditional ­non-investment. Define
the stochastic contingent recommendation ​ϕ :  Θ → Δ(B)​ by
​p​ ​​  − ​p​θ​tk−1
if b = ​b​​  k​  for some k = 1, …, n + 1
​ ​​ ​​ ​ 
     ​​​
     ​
ϕ(b | θ )   = ​ ​ ​  θ​tk​ ​​
{0
otherwise.

By (31), ​​p​θ​t​k​​ ​​ − ​p​θ​t​k−1​​ ​​ ≥ 0​, so ​ϕ( ⋅ |θ)​is a probability distribution for each ​θ ∈ {G, B}​. It is easy
to check that ​ϕ​induces the decision rule ​p​.
To complete the proof, we verify that ϕ
​​is obedient. For each l​ = 1, …, n​ and
​k = 1, …, n + 1​, type ​​tl​​​​’s expected utility from investing if and only if being recommended​​
b​​  k​​ is:
​ t​k​​ ​​ − ​p​G​t​k−1​​ ​​ ) x − (1 − ​ql​​​  )( ​pB​
​ t​k​​ ​​ − ​p​B​t​k−1​​ ​​ ) .​
	​​U​l|k​​  = ​ql​​​  ( ​pG​
Since both expressions in parentheses are nonnegative, ​​Ul​|k​​​is weakly increasing in ​l​. Therefore,
for types ​​t​l​​​ with ​l ≥ k​,
	​​U​l|k​​  ≥ ​U​k|k​​  = ​
(​q​k​​ ​p​G​t​k​​​  x − (1 − ​q​k​​  ) ​p​B​t​k​​​​)​  − ​(​q​k​​ ​p​G​t​k−1​​​  x − (1 − ​q​k​​  ) ​p​B​t​k−1​​​​)​  ≥ 0,​
where the last inequality holds by ­truth telling for ​k > 1​and obedience for ​k = 1​. Similarly,
for types ​​t​l​​​ with ​l < k​,
	​​U​l|k​​  ≤ ​U​k−1|k​​  = ​(​q​k−1​​ ​p​G​t​k​​​  x − (1 − ​q​k−1​​  ) ​p​B​t​k​​​​)​  − ​(​q​k−1​​ ​p​G​t​k−1​​​  x − (1 − ​q​k−1​​  ) ​p​B​t​k−1​​​​)​  ≤ 0.​
The last two inequalities establish the obedience of ​ϕ​, so the proof is complete. ∎
​ ​​  , ​pGg
​ ​​ )​. To compare these deciNow we return to the main problem of finding ​( ​p​Bb​​  , ​p​Bg​​  , ​pGb
sion rules to the benchmark, we will ultimately integrate over the signals to compute the probability of investment in each state. Formally,
​ ​​  , ​pGb
​ ​​  , ​pGg
​ ​​  ) → ​
​ ​​  + (1 − q) ​pGb
​ ​​)​.​
	​( ​p​Bb​​  , ​pBg
((1 − q) ​p​Bg​​  + q​p​Bb​​  , q​pGg
With an informed receiver, the omniscient designer faces four obedience constraints:
1−q
(32a)	​​Δ​  1g​ ​   ≜ q​p​Gg​​  x − (1 − q) ​p​Bg​​  − ​(q ​p​Gg​​  y − ​ _
 ​ ​p​Bg​​)​  ≥ 0,
2
q
(32b)	​
Δ​  1b​ ​   ≜ (1 − q) ​p​Gb​​  x − q​p​Bb​​  − ​((1 − q) ​p​Gb​​  y − ​ _ ​ ​p​Bb​​)​  ≥ 0,
2
1−q
(32c)	​
Δ​  0g​ ​   ≜ q(1 − ​p​Gg​​  ) y − ​ _
 ​  (1 − ​p​Bg​​  )   ≤ 0,
2

q
(32d)	​
Δ​  0b​ ​   ≜ (1 − q )(1 − ​p​Gb​​  ) y − ​ _ ​  (1 − ​p​Bb​​  )   ≤ 0.​
2

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective

91

More precisely, ​​Δ​  t1​  ​​denotes the difference in type ​t’​s utility between investing large and small
when told to invest large and ​​Δ​  t0​  ​​denotes the difference in type ​t’​s utility between investing
small and not investing when told not to invest. We thus have only ruled out profitable truthful deviations to the small investment, but it can be shown that this implies that there are no
profitable truthful deviations to not invest or to invest large. An information designer with
elicitation faces four additional constraints ruling out ­non-truthful deviations:
​ ​​   ≥ q​pGb
​ ​​  x − (1 − q) ​pBb
​ ​​  ,
(33a)	​
q​pG
​ g​​  x − (1 − q) ​pBg
(33b)

1 + ​p​Bb​​
q​p​Gg​​  x − (1 − q) ​p​Bg​​   ≥ q( ​p​Gb​​  x + (1 − ​p​Gb​​  ) y )  − (1 − q) ​ _
 ​  ,
2

(33c)

(1 − q) ​p​Gb​​  x − q​p​Bb​​   ≥ (1 − q) ​p​Gg​​  x − q​p​Bg​​  ,

(33d)

q
(1 − q) ​pG
​ b​​  x − q​p​Bb​​   ≥ (1 − q) ​p​Gg​​  y − ​ _ ​ ​p​Bg​​  .​
2

Again, it is sufficient to consider a smaller class of deviations because the high type finds
investment more attractive than the low type does. Formally, ​E(G, S)​is the set of ​p ∈ ​[0, 1]​​  4​​
satisfying (32a)–(33d).
Now we determine the additional constraints faced by an information designer without
elicitation. Since there are only two signals, we may represent each strategy ​b :  T → A​as an
ordered pair ​(b(g ) , b(b )) ∈ ​A​​  2.​​ (In the second component, the letter ​b​is used in two different ways, to denote a strategy and a signal.) The strategy ​b = (​not invest​,​ invest​)​ can never
be obedient for both types, so for any ​p ∈​​ ​​NE​​(G, S)​, there is only one candidate ​ϕ​, namely
	​
ϕ((0, 0 )  | θ )   = 1 − ​pθ​ g​​  ,
ϕ((0, 1 )  | θ )   = 0,
ϕ((1, 0 )  | θ )   = ​pθ​ g​​  − ​p​θb​​  ,
ϕ((1, 1 )  | θ )   = ​pθ​ b​​  ,​
for each ​θ ∈ {B, G}​. A designer without elicitation faces two additional obedience constraints,
which prevent deviations following the recommendation ​(​invest​,​not invest​):​
1−q
 ​ ( ​p​Bg​​  − ​p​Bb​​  ) ,
(34a)  ​
q( ​p​Gg​​  − ​p​Gb​​  ) x − (1 − q ) ( ​p​Bg​​  − ​p​Bb​​  )   ≥ q( ​p​Gg​​  − ​p​Gb​​  ) y − ​ _
2
q
(34b)	  (1 − q ) ( ​p​Gg​​  − ​p​Gb​​  ) y − ​ _ ​ ( ​p​Bg​​  − ​p​Bb​​  )   ≤ 0.​
2
Formally, ​NE​​(G, S)​is the set of decision rules in ​E(G, S)​satisfying (34a) and (34b).
After some algebra, we can see that (34a) is equivalent to
​ ​​  (2q − 1 )(x − y )  + ​p​Bb​​  (2q − 1 )/2.​
(35)	​​Δ​  1g​ ​  ≥ ​Δ​  1b ​ ​  + ​pGb

92

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

When ​p​puts positive probability on investing after a bad signal, (35) eliminates decision rules
for which (32a) has little slack. Similarly, (34b) is equivalent to
Δ​  0g​ ​  − (1 − ​pGg
​ ​​  ) (2q − 1 ) y − (1 − ​p​Bg​​  )(2q − 1 )/ 2.​
(36)	​​Δ​  0b ​ ​  ≤ ​
When ​p​puts positive probability on not investing after a good signal, (36) eliminates decision
rules for which (32d) does not have too much slack.
EXAMPLE 1 (Two Agents): Suppose ​I = 2​​,​ ​Θ = {B, G}​​,​ ​​A1​ ​​  = ​A​2​​  =​ {invest​,​ not invest}​,​
​ ​​  , θ )   = u( ​ai​ ​​  , θ)​ with ​u​ as in the opening example given by (5). Each player ​i​
and ​​u​i​​  (​ai​ ​​  , ​a−i
receives a conditionally independent signal ​​t​i​​  ∈ {g, b}​ that is correct with probability ​​q​i​​  > 1 / 2​.
Suppose ​​q1​ ​​  > ​q​2​​​​,​so that player ​1​receives a more accurate signal. Consider the following decision rule: both players invest if player ​1​’s signal is good and neither agent invests if player ​1’​s
signal is bad. For ​x​ sufficiently near one, this decision rule is incentive compatible. However,
it is not even publicly feasible because following any contingent recommendation, player ​2​’s
choice of action will depend on her own signal, not on player ​1​’s.
EXAMPLE 2 (Three States): Consider the single player, single investment setting of the opening example given by (5), but now split the bad state into two bad states ​​B1​ ​​​ and ​​B2​ ​​​​,​each with
prior probability ​1/4​ and the same payoffs as in state ​B​ of the original example. Suppose the
agents receive a completely uninformative binary signal ​t​ taking values ​​t1​ ​​​ and ​​t​2​​ with equal
probability. Consider the following decision rule: type ​​t​i​​​ invests precisely in states ​G​ and ​​Bi​ ​​​.
For ​x ∈ (1/2, 1)​, this decision rule is incentive compatible. It is uniquely induced by recommending (​b( ​t1​ ​​  ) , b( ​t2​ ​​  ))   = (​invest​,​ invest​)​ in state ​G​; (​b(​t​1​​  ), b(​t2​ ​​)) = (​invest​,​ not invest​)​ in
state ​B​1​​​; and ​(b(​t1​ ​​), b(​t2​ ​​)) = (​not invest​,​ invest​)​ in state ​​B2​ ​​​. However, this contingent recommendation perfectly reveals the state of the world, so the agent can profitably deviate to his
­first-best strategy of investing if and only if the state is ​G​. Therefore, the decision rule is not
publicly feasible obedient.

References
Alonso, Ricardo, and Odilon Câmara. 2016. “Persuading Voters.” American Economic Review 106 (11):
3590–605.
Angeletos, George-Marios, and Jennifer La’O. 2013.
“Sentiments.” Econometrica 81 (2): 739–79.
Arieli, Itai, and Yakov Babichenko. 2018. “Private
Bayesian Persuasion.” https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
papers.cfm?abstract_id=2721307.
Asquith, Paul, Thomas R. Covert, and Parag A. Pathak.
2013. “The Effects of Mandatory Transparency in
Financial Market Design: Evidence from the Corporate Bond Market.” National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper 19417.
Aumann, Robert J. 1974. “Subjectivity and Correlation
in Randomized Strategies.” Journal of Mathematical
Economics 1 (1): 67–96.
Aumann, Robert J. 1987. “Correlated Equilibrium as
an Expression of Bayesian Rationality.” ­Econometrica

55 (1): 1–18.
Aumann, Robert J., and Michael B. Maschler. 1995.
Repeated Games with Incomplete Information. Cambridge and London: MIT Press.
Ball, Ian. 2018. “Dynamic Information Provision:
Rewarding the Past and Guiding the Future.”
Unpublished.
Bassan, Bruno, Olivier Gossner, Marco Scarsini, and
Shmuel Zamir. 2003. “Positive Value of Information
in Games.” International Journal of Game Theory 32
(1): 17–31.
Bergemann, Dirk, Alessandro Bonatti, and Alex Smolin. 2018. “The Design and Price of Information.”
American Economic Review 108 (1): 1–48.
Bergemann, Dirk, Benjamin Brooks, and Stephen
Morris. 2015. “The Limits of Price Discrimination.”
American Economic Review 105 (3): 921–57.
Bergemann, Dirk, Benjamin Brooks, and Stephen
Morris. 2016. “Informationally Robust Optimal Auction Design.” Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
2065.
Bergemann, Dirk, Benjamin Brooks, and Stephen
Morris. 2017a. “First-Price Auctions with General
Information Structures: Implications for Bidding and
Revenue.” Econometrica 85 (1): 107–43.
Bergemann, Dirk, Benjamin Brooks, and Stephen
Morris. 2017b. “Selling to Intermediaries: Optimal
Auction Design in a Common Value Model.” Cowles
Foundation Discussion Paper 2064R.
Bergemann, Dirk, Tibor Heumann, and Stephen Morris. 2015. “Information and Volatility.” Journal of
Economic Theory 158 (Part B): 427–65.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2013a. “Bayes
Correlated Equilibrium and the Comparison of
Information Structures.” Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper 1822R.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2013b. “Robust
Predictions in Games with Incomplete Information.”
Econometrica 81 (4): 1251–308.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2016a. “Bayes
Correlated Equilibrium and the Comparison of
Information Structures in Games.” Theoretical Economics 11 (2): 487–522.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2016b. “Information Design, Bayesian Persuasion, and Bayes Correlated Equilibrium.” American Economic Review
106 (5): 586–91.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2017. “BeliefFree Rationalizability and Informational Robustness.” Games and Economic Behavior 104: 744–59.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Martin Pesendorfer. 2007.
“Information Structures in Optimal Auctions.” Journal of Economic Theory 137 (1): 580–609.
Blackwell, David. 1951. “Comparison of Experiments.”
Proceedings of the Second Berkeley Symposium on
Mathematical Statistics and Probability, edited by
Jerzy Neyman, 93–102. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Blackwell, David. 1953. “Equivalent Comparisons of
Experiments.” Annals of Mathematical Statistics 24
(2): 265–72.
Brocas, Isabelle, and Juan D. Carrillo. 2007. “Influence
through Ignorance.” RAND Journal of Economics 38
(4): 931–47.
Brooks, Benjamin, and Songzi Du. 2018. “Optimal
Auction Design with Common Values: An Informationally-Robust Approach.” https://papers.ssrn.com/
sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3137227.
Calzolari, Giacomo, and Alessandro Pavan. 2006.
“Monopoly with Resale.” RAND Journal of Economics 37 (2): 362–75.
Caplin, Andrew, and Mark Dean. 2015. “Revealed
Preference, Rational Inattention, and Costly Information Acquisition.” American Economic Review
105 (7): 2183–203.
Caplin, Andrew, and Daniel Martin. 2015. “A Testable
Theory of Imperfect Perception.” Economic Journal
125 (582): 184–202.
Carroll, Gabriel. 2016. “Informationally Robust Trade
and Limits to Contagion.” Journal of Economic Theory 166: 334–61.

93

Carroll, Gabriel, and Ilya Segal. Forthcoming.
“Robustly Optimal Auctions with Unknown Resale
Opportunities.” Review of Economic Studies.
Chung, Kim-Sau, and J. C. Ely. 2007. “Foundations of
Dominant-Strategy Mechanisms.” Review of Economic Studies 74 (2): 447–76.
Das, Sammy, Emir Kamenica, and Renee Mirka. 2017.
“Reducing Congestion through Information Design.”
In Proceedings of the 2017 55th Annual Allerton
Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, 1279–84. Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
Daskalakis, Constantinos, Christos Papadimitriou, and
Christos Tzamos. 2016. “Does Information Revelation Improve Revenue?” In Proceedings of the
2016 ACM Conference on Economics and Computation, 233–50. New York: Association for Computing
Machinery.
Dekel, Eddie, Drew Fudenberg, and Stephen Morris.
2007. “Interim Correlated Rationalizability.” Theoretical Economics 2: 15–40.
Dekel, Eddie, and Marciano Siniscalchi. 2015. “Epistemic Game Theory.” In Handbook of Game Theory
with Economic Applications: Volume 4, edited by H.
Peyton Young and Shmuel Zamir, 619–702. Amsterdam and Lausanne: Elsevier, North-Holland.
Doval, Laura, and Jeffrey C. Ely. 2016. “Sequential
Information Design.” Unpublished.
Du, Songzi. 2018. “Robust Mechanisms under Common Valuation.” Econometrica 86 (5): 1569–88.
Duffie, Darrell, Piotr Dworczak, and Haoxiang Zhu.
2017. “Benchmarks in Search Markets.” Journal of
Finance 72 (5): 1983–2044.
Dughmi, Shaddin. 2017. “Algorithmic Information Structure Design: A Survey.” ACM SIGecom
Exchanges 15 (2): 2–24.
Dworczak, Piotr. 2017. “Mechanism Design with Aftermarkets: Cutoff Mechanisms.” https://papers.ssrn.
com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2859206.
Ely, Jeffrey C. 2017. “Beeps.” American Economic
Review 107 (1): 31–53.
Ely, Jeffrey C., Alexander Frankel, and Emir Kamenica. 2015. “Suspense and Surprise.” Journal of Political Economy 123 (1): 215–60.
Ely, Jeffrey C., and Martin Szydlowski. 2017. “Moving the Goalposts.” Semantic Scholar. https://www.
semanticscholar.org/paper/Moving-the-Goalposts%E2%88%97-Ely-Szydlowski/c081b130ef941ba2ea
338591a73e8480ccad3c03.
Forges, Françoise. 1993. “Five Legitimate Definitions
of Correlated Equilibrium in Games with Incomplete
Information.” Theory and Decision 35 (3): 277–310.
Forges, Françoise. 2006. “Correlated Equilibrium in
Games with Incomplete Information Revisited.”
Theory and Decision 61 (4): 329–44.
Forges, Françoise, and Frédéric Koessler. 2005.
“Communication Equilibria with Partially Verifiable
Types.” Journal of Mathematical Economics 41 (7):
793–811.
Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. 1991. Game Theory. Cambridge and London: MIT Press.
Gentzkow, Matthew, and Emir Kamenica. 2014.

94

Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LVII (March 2019)

“Costly Persuasion.” American Economic Review 104
(5): 457–62.
Gentzkow, Matthew, and Emir Kamenica. 2017. “Competition in Persuasion.” Review of Economic Studies
84: 300–322.
Goldstein, Itay, and Chong Huang. 2016. “Bayesian
Persuasion in Coordination Games.” American Economic Review 106 (5): 592–96.
Gossner, Olivier. 2000. “Comparison of Information
Structures.” Games and Economic Behavior 30 (1):
44–63.
Hellwig, Christian, and Venky Venkateswaran. 2009.
“Setting the Right Prices for the Wrong Reasons.”
Journal of Monetary Economics 56 (Supplement):
S57–77.
Hillas, John, Elon Kohlberg, and John Pratt. 2007.
“Correlated Equilibrium and Nash Observer’s
Assessment of the Game.” Harvard Business School
Working Paper 08-005.
Hirshleifer, Jack. 1971. “The Private and Social Value
of Information and the Reward to Inventive Activity.”
American Economic Review 61 (4): 561–74.
Horner, Johannes, and Andrzej Skrzypacz. 2016.
“Learning, Experimentation and Information
Design.” Unpublished.
Hoshino, T. 2017. “Multi-agent Persuasion: Leveraging
Strategic Uncertainty.” https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
papers.cfm?abstract_id=2978998.
Inostroza, Nicolas, and Alessandro Pavan. 2017. “Persuasion in Global Games with Application to Stress
Testing.” Unpublished.
Kajii, Atsushi, and Stephen Morris. 1997. “The Robustness of Equilibria to Incomplete Information.”
Econometrica 65 (6): 1283–309.
Kamenica, Emir. Forthcoming. “Bayesian Persuasion and Information Design.” Annual Review of
Economics.
Kamenica, Emir, and Matthew Gentzkow. 2011.
“Bayesian Persuasion.” American Economic Review
101 (6): 2590–615.
Kolotilin, Anton. 2018. “Optimal Information Disclosure: A Linear Programming Approach.” Theoretical
Economics 13 (2): 607–36.
Kolotilin, Anton, Tymofiy Mylovanov, Andriy
Zapecheinyuk, and Ming Li. 2017. “Persuasion of a
Privately Informed Receiver.” Econometrica 85 (6):
1949–64.
Laffont, Jean-Jacques. 1989. The Economics of Uncertainty and Information. Cambridge and London:
MIT Press.
Lehrer, Ehud, Dinah Rosenberg, and Eran Shmaya.
2010. “Signaling and Mediation in Games with Common Interests.” Games and Economic Behavior 68
(2): 670–82.
Liu, Qingmin. 2015. “Correlation and Common Priors
in Games with Incomplete Information.” Journal of
Economic Theory 157: 49–75.
Lucas, Robert E., Jr. 1972. “Expectations and the Neutrality of Money.” Journal of Economic Theory 4 (2):
103–24.
Magnolfi, Lorenzo, and Camilla Roncoroni. 2017.

“Estimation of Discrete Games with Weak Assumptions on Information.” Unpublished.
Makris, Miltiadis, and Ludovic Renou. 2018. “Information Design in Multi-stage Games.” Queen Mary,
University of London School of Economics and
Finance Working Paper 861.
Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry
R. Green. 1995. Microeconomic Theory. Oxford and
New York: Oxford University Press.
Maskin, Eric. 1999. “Nash Equilibrium and Welfare
Optimality.” Review of Economic Studies 66 (1):
23–38.
Mathevet, Laurent, Jacopo Perego, and Ina Taneva.
2017. “On Information Design in Games.” Semantic Scholar. https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/
On-Information-Design-in-Games-%E2%88%97Mathevet-Perego/de58caf63cb718d319858eea03546
8ad55e7b5b8.
Mertens, Jean-François, and Shmuel Zamir. 1985.
“Formulation of Bayesian Analysis for Games with
Incomplete Information.” International Journal of
Game Theory 14 (1): 1–29.
Meyer, Margaret. 2017. “Information Design: Insights
from Orderings of Dependence and Heterogeneity.”
Unpublished.
Milgrom, Paul R., and Robert J. Weber. 1982. “A Theory of Auctions and Competitive Bidding.” Econometrica 50 (5): 1089–122.
Morris, Stephen, and Takashi Ui. 2005. “Generalized
Potentials and Robust Sets of Equilibria.” Journal of
Economic Theory 124 (1): 45–78.
Myerson, Roger B. 1982. “Optimal Coordination
Mechanisms in Generalized Principal–Agent Problems.” Journal of Mathematical Economics 10 (1):
67–81.
Myerson, Roger B. 1983. “Mechanism Design By an
Informed Principal.” Econometrica 51 (6): 1767–97.
Myerson, Roger B. 1986. “Multistage Games with
Communication.” Econometrica 54 (2): 323–58.
Myerson, Roger B. 1987. “Bayesian Equilibrium and
Incentive-Compatibility: An Introduction.” In Social
Goals and Social Organization: Essays in Memory
of Elisha Pazner, edited by Leonid Hurwicz, David
Schmeidler, and Hugo Sonnenschein, 229–59. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Myerson, Roger B. 1991. Game Theory: Analysis of Conflict. Cambridge and London: Harvard
­University Press.
Myerson, Roger B. 1994. “Communication, Correlated
Equilibria and Incentive Compatibility.” In Handbook of Game Theory with Economic Applications:
Volume 2, edited by Robert Aumann and Sergiu
Hart, 827–48. Amsterdam and Boston: Elsevier,
North-Holland.
Myerson, Roger B., and Mark A. Satterthwaite. 1983.
“Efficient Mechanisms for Bilateral Trading.” Journal of Economic Theory 29 (2): 265–81.
Mylovanov, Tymofiy, and Thomas Tröger. 2012.
“Informed-Principal Problems in Environments with
Generalized Private Values.” Theoretical Economics
7 (3): 465–88.

Bergemann and Morris: Information Design: A Unified Perspective
Mylovanov, Tymofiy, and Thomas Tröger. 2014. “Mechanism Design By an Informed Principal: Private Values with Transferable Utility.” Review of Economic
Studies 81 (4): 1668–707.
Newyman, Abraham. 1991. “The Positive Value of
Information.” Games and Economic Behavior 3 (3):
350–55.
Novshek, William, and Hugo Sonnenschein. 1982.
“Fulfilled Expectations Cournot Duopoly with Information Acquisition and Release.” Bell Journal of Economics 13 (1): 214–18.
Ostrovsky, Michael, and Michael Schwarz. 2010. “Information Disclosure and Unraveling in Matching Markets.” American Economic Journal: Microeconomics
2 (2): 34–63.
Passadore, Juan, and Juan Pablo Xandri. 2014. “Robust
Conditional Predictions in Dynamic Games: An
Application to Sovereign Debt.” Semantic Scholar.
https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/RobustConditional-Predictions-in-Dynamic-Games-%3APassadore-Xandri/272ea4246dd7d4475838dd3aaa80
3962876f198b.

95

Perez-Richet, Eduardo. 2014. “Interim Bayesian Persuasion: First Steps.” American Economic Review
104 (5): 469–74.
Rayo, Luis, and Ilya Segal. 2010. “Optimal Information
Disclosure.” Journal of Political Economy 118 (5):
949–87.
Roesler, Anne-Katrin, and Balázs Szentes. 2017. “Buyer-Optimal Learning and Monopoly Pricing.” American Economic Review 107 (7): 2072–80.
Rubinstein, Ariel. 1989. “The Electronic Mail Game:
Strategic Behavior under ‘Almost Common Knowledge’.” American Economic Review 79 (3): 385–91.
Syrgkanis, Vasilis, Elie Tamer, and Juba Ziani. 2017.
“Inference on Auctions with Weak Assumptions on
Information.” https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03830.
Taneva, Ina. 2015. “Information Design.” University of
Edinburgh Discussion Paper 256.
Ui, Takashi. 2001. “Robust Equilibria of Potential
Games.” Econometrica 69 (5): 1373–80.
Venkateswaran, Venky. 2013. “Heterogeneous
Information and Labor Market Fluctuations.”
Unpublished.

