American Economic Review 2020, 110(11): 3522–3548
https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20171175




                                From Extreme to Mainstream:
                                The Erosion of Social Norms†
              By Leonardo Bursztyn, Georgy Egorov, and Stefano Fiorin*

               Social norms, usually persistent, can change quickly when new pub-
               lic information arrives, such as a surprising election outcome. People
               may become more inclined to express views or take actions previ-
               ously perceived as stigmatized and may judge others less negatively
               for doing so. We examine this possibility using two experiments. We
               first show via revealed preference experiments that Donald Trump’s
               rise in popularity and eventual victory increased individuals’ will-
               ingness to publicly express xenophobic views. We then show that
               individuals are sanctioned less negatively if they publicly expressed a
               xenophobic view in an environment where that view is more ­popular.
               (JEL D72, D85, Z13)


        Social norms, the set of “social sanctions or rewards” that incentivize a certain
     behavior (Bénabou and Tirole 2011), are an important element of any society: some
     behaviors and opinions are socially desirable, while others are stigmatized. There is
     growing evidence that individuals care to a large extent about how they are perceived
     by others and that such concerns might affect important decisions in a variety of set-
     tings, from charitable donations (Andreoni and Bernheim 2009; DellaVigna, List,
     and Malmendier 2012; Andreoni, Rao, and Trachtman 2017) to schooling choices
     (Bursztyn and Jensen 2015) to political behavior (Gerber, Green, and Larimer 2008;
     DellaVigna et al. 2017; Enikolopov et al. 2017; ­Perez-Truglia and Cruces 2017).
     Moreover, these social image concerns matter both in interactions with other people
     from the same social group (Bursztyn and Jensen 2015) and in interactions with
     strangers, such as surveyors and solicitors (DellaVigna, List, and Malmendier 2012;
     DellaVigna et al. 2017).




         *Bursztyn: University of Chicago and NBER (­email: bursztyn@uchicago.edu); Egorov: Kellogg School of
     Management, Northwestern University and NBER (­email: ­g-egorov@kellogg.northwestern.edu); Fiorin: Bocconi
     University and IGIER (­email: stefano.fiorin@unibocconi.it). Roland Bénabou was the coeditor for this article.
     We thank four anonymous referees, Daron Acemoglu, Abhijit Banerjee, Davide Cantoni, Esther Duflo, Benjamin
     Enke, Raymond Fisman, Tarek Hassan, John List, Emir Kamenica, Ricardo ­Perez-Truglia, Frank Schilbach, Andrei
     Shleifer, ­Hans-Joachim Voth, Noam Yuchtman, and numerous seminar participants for helpful comments and sug-
     gestions. Excellent research assistance was provided by Raymond Han, Alena ­Kang-Landsberg, Andrew Kao, Jacob
     Miller, Aakaash Rao, Giacomo Stazi, Parker Whitfill, and Rebecca Wu. We are grateful to the UCLA Behavioral
     Lab for financial support. This study received approval from the UCLA and U Chicago Institutional Review Boards.
     The experiments can be found in the AEA RCT Registry (­AEARCTR-0001752 and ­AEARCTR-0002028).
         †
           Go to https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20171175 to visit the article page for additional materials and author
     disclosure statements.

                                                          3522
VOL. 110 NO. 11                   BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                 3523



   A recent literature has documented the persistence of cultural traits and norms
over long periods of time (Voigtländer and Voth 2012; Fernández 2007; Giuliano
2007; Algan and Cahuc 2010; Alesina, Giuliano, and Nunn 2013). However, little is
known about what factors might lead ­long-standing social norms to change, or even
more so, to change quickly. In this paper, we argue that aggregators of private opin-
ions in a society, such as elections, might lead to updates in individuals’ perceptions
of what people around them think, and thus induce fast changes in the social accept-
ability of holding and expressing certain opinions. This, in turn, might increase the
likelihood that these opinions are publicly expressed and reduce the extent to which
these expressions are negatively judged and sanctioned by others.1
   Consider the support for the communist regime in the Soviet Union in the late
1980s. Kuran (1991) argues that many individuals opposed the regime but believed
that others supported it. In that environment, a referendum on the regime would have
quickly updated people’s opinions about the views of others. Incorrect beliefs about
the opinions of others are not restricted to totalitarian regimes, where expressing
personal views is often risky. In fact, as we argue below, if most individuals assume
that a specific opinion is stigmatized, the stigma may be sustained in equilibrium.2
   In this paper, we examine how social norms can be eroded quickly when new pub-
lic information arrives naturally, such as an election outcome.3 We use experiments
to test the idea that Donald Trump’s rise in popularity and eventual victory in the
2016 US Presidential election causally increased individuals’ willingness to publicly
express ­anti-immigration (xenophobic) views, as well as the social acceptability of
such expression.4 We examine both sides of a social interaction: agents engaging in
observable behavior and observers, judging and potentially ­sanctioning/­rewarding
the behavior of agents. Our first experiment indicates that Donald Trump’s rise in
popularity and eventual victory in the 2016 US Presidential election increased indi-
viduals’ willingness to engage in public xenophobic behavior. We also examine how
this process led to changes on the observer’s side as well. We document that even

    1
      In the view of social norms we adopt, they guide public or potentially public, but not private, actions. We do
not take a broader view on social norms that also includes ­self-image concerns that can shape even one’s private
behavior by rewarding adherence and punishing deviance. Notice that since our paper explains how new public
information can change social norms in the narrower (and our preferred) sense, it also suggests that social norms in
the broader sense change: specifically, the part of social norms responsible for rewards or punishments by others.
Thus, when we say that social norms are eroded, they do so according to either definition.
    2
      This phenomenon is known in social psychology as “pluralistic ignorance” (Katz, Allport, and Jenness 1931),
where privately most people reject a view, but incorrectly believe that most other people accept it, and therefore
end up acting accordingly. For example, in 1968 most White Americans substantially overestimated the support for
racial segregation among other Whites (O’Gorman 1975). A related concept is “preference falsification” (Kuran
1995): people’s stated, public preferences are influenced by social acceptability, and might be different from their
true, private preferences. For example, American college graduates consistently understate their support for immi-
gration restrictions when asked directly as compared to their preferences elicited in a less obtrusive way, which is
consistent with preference falsification (Janus 2010).
    3
      A different mechanism, whereby powerful individuals can change norms by refusing to honor the systems of
punishments and rewards that sustain these norms, is documented by Greif (2006) in the context of Genoan mer-
chants and by Richman (2017) in the context of modern diamond traders.
    4
      We thus focus on the consequences of Trump’s election rather than its causes or determinants. Relatedly,
Müller and Schwarz (2019) investigate the role of social media in spreading ­anti-Muslim sentiment during Trump’s
2016 presidential campaign, while Giani and Méon (2019) document the effect of Trump’s election on racial bias
in policy attitudes outside of the United States. With respect to the determinants, Enke (forthcoming) demonstrates
the link between communal (as opposed to universal) moral values and Trump vote at the county level, while Allcott
and Gentzkow (2017) discuss the possible role of fake news. Relatedly, Xiong (forthcoming) studies the effect of
the celebrity status of Ronald Reagan on his electoral support, and suggests that a similar effect may have helped
Trump.
3524                                  THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                 NOVEMBER 2020



individuals likely disagreeing with xenophobic behavior sanction public expression
of xenophobia less when they learn that the underlying view is more popular by
observing the election outcome. This paper therefore studies a natural process of
social norm change, and it does so by examining both agents and observers.
   To organize thoughts and connect the experiments within a single framework,
we build a model where two types of individuals, say xenophobic and tolerant,
choose an action, but in doing so they care about approval or disapproval of other
people who might observe the action (the relative proportion of the two types is
a random variable whose realization is unknown to individuals). Like the agents
choosing the action, the members of the audience are Bayesian, and their inference
about the agent’s type depends on the strategies he uses in equilibrium. In this envi-
ronment, social pressure might lead some agents to choose the action that they do
not naturally prefer, and it is even possible that all agents choose the same action
(which, arguably, prevents learning about the distribution of types).5 We then study
the impact of public signals and show that a signal suggesting that more people are
likely to be xenophobic increases the share of agents who choose the xenophobic
action. However, the same signal may decrease the audience’s perception that an
agent who chose the xenophobic action is a xenophobe. Indeed, when few individ-
uals are perceived to be xenophobic, there is no social pressure to appear to be one,
and thus only xenophobes would choose a public xenophobic action. In contrast,
when xenophobic individuals are thought to be common, such social pressure might
be there, and thus not everyone acting in a xenophobic way is a true xenophobe.6
   We experimentally capture the effects of Trump’s rise in popularity. Throughout
his campaign, Donald Trump proposed, among other things, the construction of a
wall separating the United States and Mexico and a ban on Muslims from entering
the United States. His popularity might thus send an informative signal about the
number of people who sympathize with these proposals and thus about those who
hold xenophobic views. As a result, Donald Trump’s electoral success potentially
caused a shift in social norms regarding expressing views on immigrants. We first
examine the effect of Trump’s rise in popularity (and thus of information aggrega-
tion) on people’s willingness to publicly express xenophobia. In ­August–October
2018, we recruited a sample of 1,600 participants through an online panel survey
company. We manipulate respondents’ perceptions of Trump’s local level of popu-
larity in the 2016 election by exploiting the fact in some areas of the United States
where that election was close, the candidate who won the election at the county
level was different from the winner at the metropolitan statistical area (MSA) level.
The subjects of this experiment were all recruited from the Pittsburgh MSA. In the
beginning of the experiment, participants were given three facts about the history
and politics of this area; we randomize whether one of these facts was that Donald

    5
      The model is thus similar to earlier work on social image concerns and social norms (see Bénabou and Tirole
2006, for a general framework on incentives and prosocial behavior; and Ali and Lin 2013, for a model where eth-
ical agents vote because they want to, while opportunistic ones vote in order to appear ethical). The possibility of
pooling and the resulting ­non-transmission of information is suggested in Morris (2001), where an advisor who is
afraid of being perceived as biased ultimately avoids giving informative advice.
    6
      A similar effect appears in Bénabou and Tirole (2006), where an explicit incentive to do a prosocial action
enables selfish people to do so, thus reducing the signaling value of such action. Similarly, in Ali and Lin (2013), a
higher propensity of opportunistic voters (those caring about social image but not social welfare) to vote makes
other such voters less willing to turn out.
VOL. 110 NO. 11            BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                  3525



Trump won the election in “Pittsburgh’s metropolitan area” or that Hillary Clinton
won the election in “Pittsburgh’s county.” Participants were then offered a bonus
cash reward if they authorized the researchers to make a donation to a strongly
­anti-immigration organization on their behalf. Accepting the offer is therefore a
 profitable xenophobic action.
    We also randomly manipulated the participants’ expectations of anonymity
 through a public condition that implies visibility by a relevant “peer group,” i.e.,
 other subjects in the same geographic area of the respondent. All participants were
 told that the donation decisions would be posted on a website to be shared with all
 the participants from their area. One-half of the participants were assured that their
 individual responses would be kept completely anonymous (the “private” condi-
 tion). The other half, instead, were exposed to a treatment designed to make them
 think that the responses posted on the website would not be anonymous (the “pub-
 lic” condition).
    In the Clinton Won treatment, participants in the public condition were signifi-
 cantly more likely to forgo the donation bonus payment than those in the private
 condition. This suggests the presence of social stigma associated with the action.
 However, we find that for the participants in the Trump Won treatment, who received
 information that positively updated their perceptions of Trump’s popularity, the
 wedge in the likelihood of undertaking the xenophobic action in private and public
 disappeared. This difference with respect to the Clinton Won condition was driven
 entirely by an increase in the donation rate in the public condition, with no change in
 the private condition. Our results suggest that an increase in perceptions of Donald
 Trump’s local popularity does not make these participants more xenophobic, but
 instead makes those who were already xenophobic more comfortable expressing their
 xenophobic views in public. In addition, consistent with an underlying mechanism of
 updates in perceptions about the local popularity of xenophobic views, we find that
 the Trump Won treatment shifts the distribution of participants’ perceptions about the
 local popularity of those views to the right. We also use the Trump Won treatment
 as an instrument for the shift in perceptions, and show that participants’ perceptions
 causally affect their donation in public, but not in private. Note that instead of directly
 manipulating people’s beliefs about a social norm (e.g., by telling them the share of
 people who hold a certain view), we instead vary the perceived local popularity of
 Donald Trump, and document that this naturally leads to changes in behavior.
    Overall, these results indicate that social norms can quickly shift as a result of
 private opinions being aggregated and diffused through elections. In an earlier,
 motivating experiment implemented on Amazon Mechanical Turk (mTurk), we
 took advantage of a unique opportunity and examined information aggregation in
 “real time” in the weeks just before and after the November 2016 US Presidential
 election. The results are consistent with the causal effect we document in the main
 experiment. Participants who expected their decision to donate to a xenophobic
 organization to be observed by a surveyor were significantly less likely to make
 the donation than those expecting anonymity. Increases in participants’ perceptions
 of Trump’s popularity (either through experimental variation or through the “nat-
 ural experiment” of his victory) eliminated the wedge between private and public
 ­behavior. The design and results from the motivating experiment are presented in
  online Appendix Section D.
3526                       THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                 NOVEMBER 2020



    We then turn our attention to the study of how the 2016 election changed people’s
sanctioning of observed xenophobic expression. We again hired an online panel
survey company to recruit, in November 2018, a sample of about 1,800 respondents
who had previously ­self-identified to the firm as Democrats. The respondents were
asked to play a dictator game in which they decided how to split $2 between them-
selves and another agent. Our goal was to evaluate how they punished someone for
expressing xenophobia in private or in public, depending on their perceptions of
the popularity of xenophobia in that person’s area. In particular, we were interested
in studying the sanctioning of xenophobic expression in a situation where people
believe that xenophobia is so popular that there might be social pressure for tol-
erant individuals to choose an observable xenophobic action. We told a recruited
participant (henceforth, player 1) that a participant from a previous study (player 2)
donated money to a named xenophobic organization, and ­cross-randomized whether
we told player 1 that (i) Trump or Clinton won the election in player 2’s area; and
(ii) player 2’s donation was in private or publicly observable on a website shared
with other participants from his area. Note that participants assigned as player 2
were real participants from the experiment described above and that we selected
only participants who decided to make the donation to the xenophobic organization.
Other design elements are important to emphasize. Player 2 did not know he was
going to be part of a dictator game in the future and player 1 was informed about
this fact. Also, player 1 did not know that player 2’s area was Pittsburgh (doing
­otherwise would have potentially limited the size of the shifts in player 1’s per-
 ceptions about the popularity of xenophobia and the extent of social pressure for
 tolerant individuals to act as xenophobes in player 2’s area). Finally, player 1 was
 not told that player 2 had been offered an incentive to donate to the organization.
    We find that the amounts given by player 1 participants to player 2 participants
 are similar when player 2’s donation was in private, regardless of who won the
 election in player 2’s area. This helps us deal with confounds, such as learning
 about local motives to privately oppose immigration (since shifting perceptions on
 who won the election in player 2’s area could have changed the perception of what
 that area is). Player 1 participants also give a similar amount to player 2 when his
 decision was in public when told that Clinton won in player 2’s area. According to
 our t­wo-type framework, the logic is simple: there is no social pressure to act as a
 xenophobe in an area where Clinton won (the pressure is, if anything, in the oppo-
 site direction), and therefore it must be that player 2 is indeed a xenophobe, just
 like in the private cases, which also did not involve social considerations. We do
 not find evidence, instead, of a different reaction from players 1 in the Clinton Won
 treatment, where players 2 who donate in public are sanctioned more heavily than
 those who donate in private, because by publicly expressing xenophobic views in
 an environment where those views are unpopular, players 2 reveal to be even more
 extreme than those who donate only in private (as could emerge from a framework
 with more than two types). In the final treatment, where player 2’s decisions were
 public in an area where Trump won the election, player 1 participants give signifi-
 cantly more to player 2. Player 2 was now potentially subject to social pressure to
 publicly act as a xenophobe since his donation decision was going to be observed by
 local peers in an area where Trump won the election. The inference player 1 could
 make on whether player 2 was truly a xenophobe is therefore weakened due to the
VOL. 110 NO. 11                   BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                   3527



strategic incentives player 2 could have to donate in order to pander to the majority.
Here again, we use the information on who won the election in player 2’s area as
an instrument for player 1’s perception of the popularity of xenophobia in that area,
and show that these perceptions affect the amount given by player 1 when player 2’s
decision was public but not when it was private.
   Our results suggest that Trump’s rise in popularity and eventual electoral victory
causally changed social norms regarding the expression of xenophobic views in the
United States. Though we detect no changes in ­privately held views, we believe the
findings on public expression are of great policy relevance.7

    Related Literature.—Our results contribute to a growing literature that examines
the impacts of political institutions on social norms and culture more generally. This
literature typically studies the ­long-run impact of political institutions (e.g., Lowes
et al. 2017); we show that changes on the political side can lead to fast changes in
social norms. Our paper also adds to a recent theoretical literature on social norms
(e.g., Bénabou and Tirole 2011, Acemoglu and Jackson 2017) by studying how
new information may lead to erosion of such norms. Our findings also speak to a
­cross-disciplinary literature on the consequences of political actions, both theoreti-
 cal (e.g., Lohmann 1993) and empirical (e.g., Madestam et al. 2013).8
    Our work also relates to existing papers studying the economic consequences of
conformity. Prendergast (1993) identifies rational incentives for managers to con-
form to supervisors’ opinions in order to appear competent, which in turn hampers
information transmission, while Bernheim (1994) shows that social concerns can
lead to formation of social norms. Developing these ideas, Morris (2001) shows
that the fear of being seen as biased could completely shut down information trans-
mission from an advisor to a ­decision-maker. Ali and Lin (2013) study how social
 image concerns can give rise to ­prosocial behavior by ­non-altruistic individuals in
 the context of voter turnout, while Ali and Bénabou (2020) study how intensify-
 ing social image concerns about contributions to public goods makes it more diffi-
 cult to learn about evolving social norms and preferences on those contributions.9
Andreoni, Nikiforakis, and Siegenthaler (2017) study “conformity traps,” situations
where groups of individuals fail to coordinate on a beneficial action due to ­individual

    7
      For example, increases in public expression of ­anti-immigrant sentiment might also lead to more frequent acts
of hate crime against immigrants, and might also facilitate coordination for ­large-scale actions, such as demonstra-
tions and movements. Recent work provides evidence that such demonstrations and movements might affect many
important outcomes, from election results (Madestam et al. 2013) to the stock market valuation of different firms
(Acemoglu, Hassan, and Tahoun 2018). In addition, a reduction in the stigma associated with holding ­previously
extreme views might lead to shifts in the language used in and reported by the popular media, and might also
reduce the stigma associated with consuming and discussing certain news sources on the far side of the politi-
cal spectrum. An increase in public expression of such views can thus lead to an increase in individuals’ overall
exposure to them, and more exposure might eventually lead to changes in ­privately held views, via persuasion
or simple conformism.
    8
      Recent work has documented how policy changes, such as the introduction of cable TV in India (Jensen and
Oster 2009) and quotas for female politicians (Beaman et al. 2009), can lead to changes in attitudes toward women
and in behavior. However, these studies do not focus on isolating the mechanisms of social norm change (i.e.,
updates in perceived social acceptability as opposed to potential changes in private views.)
    9
      Our model builds on these important precursors, albeit with notable differences. In these models, like in our
paper, increased propensity of ­non-altruistic individuals to act prosocially makes it more difficult for observers to
identify truly prosocial individuals. The main difference is that we seek to capture a contentious political setting
where the same social image (e.g., of a xenophobic person) might be approved by some and stigmatized by others,
as opposed to situations where all individuals seek to espouse a particular ­prosocial image.
3528                             THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                         NOVEMBER 2020



incentives to conform to the predominant and inefficient behavior. In a laboratory
experiment they find, in particular, that opinion polls can facilitate changes of norms
that benefit the group. Their setting, however, is one of full information, and thus
opinion polls facilitate switching from one equilibrium to another. Our model has
incomplete information and features a unique equilibrium, and opinion polls or
elections can change the beliefs about the distribution of other people’s opinions.
We also do not take a position on whether overcoming conformity is necessarily
socially beneficial.
   Our paper also contributes to a recent experimental literature on the effect of
social norms on behavior. Krupka and Weber (2013) show that elicited social norms
predict changes in behavior across variants of the dictator game. Bursztyn, González,
and ­Yanagizawa-Drott (2020) directly manipulate perceived social norms, which in
turn changes behavior. Here, our interest is in evaluating how natural processes that
aggregate information about private opinions (such as an election) can lead to fast
changes in social norms which lead both to changes in behavior and in sanctioning
of behavior. Our approach also allows us to evaluate, using revealed preference, how
updates about existing norms change both the way people express themselves and
the way people sanction others for expressing themselves.
   The remainder of this paper proceeds as follows. We introduce a simple frame-
work formalizing our argument in Section I. In Section II, we present the design and
results from Experiment 1, which studies the expression of xenophobic views. In
Section III, we present the design and results from Experiment 2, which studies the
sanctioning of xenophobic expression. Section IV concludes.

                                   I. Motivating Framework

  To organize thoughts and motivate our experimental designs, we present a simple
model of social image and communication.

                                             A. Model

     The society consists of citizens of two types, with P             ​r​{t​i​​​  = A}​  = p​ and
​Pr​{t​​i​​  = B}​  = 1 − p​. This probability ​p​is itself a random variable: ​p = ​p​H​​ with
 probability θ​​and p​ = ​pL​ ​​ with probability 1​− ,          θ​ where θ​ ∈ ​(0, 1)​​ and
 ​0 < ​p​L​​  < ​p​H​​  < 1​. Conditional on the realization of ​p,​ the types of citizens are
independent.
     Each citizen knows his/her own type but not the realization of ​p.​ However, they
get a public signal s​​that is informative of ​p.​ We assume that s​ ∈ ​{​p​L​​, ​pH       ​ ​​}​,​ and
that ​s = p​with probability ​μ ≥ 1/2​, so ​μ = 1/2​corresponds to an uninforma-
tive signal, and ​μ = 1​to a precise revelation of ​p​.
     Consider a citizen deciding between two actions, which we also denote ​A​and ​B​,
slightly abusing notation (we will refer to the citizen choosing an action, the actor, as
“he” and to a generic member of the audience as “she”). We interpret action ​A​as the
preferred action of type ​A​and ​B​as the preferred action of type ​B​. More specifically,
assume that the utility levels of each type from the corresponding action are ​​V​A​​  > 0​
and ​​V​B​​  > 0​, respectively, and the utility levels from the opposite actions are nor-
malized to zero.
     VOL. 110 NO. 11                                         BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                                                          3529



    Suppose that citizen i​​is the actor choosing ​d      ​i​​​  ∈ ​{A, B},​​ and suppose he
is doing so before an audience of size n​ ≥ 0​           , with ​n​​priv​​  = 0​ correspond-
ing to a private decision and ​​n​pub​​  > 0​to a public decision (in which case let ​​Ni​​​
denote this audience). Members of the audience observe the decision ​​di​​​ and use
it, as well as any other information they have, including the realization of their
own type, to update their beliefs on citizen i​’​s type t​​i​​​. We assume that citizen i​​
gets utility ​​χi​​​ if type ​A​member of the audience believes he is type ​A​ (as opposed
to ​B​) or if type ​B​one believes he is type ​B​ (as opposed to ​A​).10 Let ​​hi​​​  = ​n​pub​​ ​χi​​​
denote individual i​’​s total social image concerns when making a public decision
and let j​​be a generic member of the audience; then citizen i​​makes decision ​​d​i​​ to
maximize

     (1) ​​Ui​​​​(​d​i​​)​ = ​Vt​​i​​​ ​​ 1​{​d​i​​  = ​t​i​​}​ + ​1​pub​​ ​χ​i​​ ​  ∑ ​​​ ​Ei​​​​(​Pr​j​​​(t​​i​​  = ​t​j​​  ∣ s, ​tj​​​, ​d​i​​)​  ∣ s, ​ti​​​)​​
                                                                                            j∈​Ni​​​


​	                                   Vt​​i​​​ ​​ 1​{​d​i​​  = ​t​i​​}​ + ​1​pub​​ ​h​i​​ ​  ∑ ​​​ ​Pr​i​​​(t​​j​​  = s, t ∣ ​ti​​​)​ ​Pr​j​​​(t​​i​​  = t ∣ s, ​tj​​​  = t, ​di​​​).​​
                                   = ​
                                                                                            t∈​{A,B}​


Here, the last term reflects that both the sender and the receiver update on the dis-
tribution of types taking their own type into account: ​​Pr​i​​​(t​j​​​  = t ∣ s, ​ti​​​)​​is the send-
  er’s posterior that receiver j​​has type t​​given public signal ​s​and his type t​​i​​​, and
​​Pr​j​​​(t​​i​​  = t ∣ s, ​tj​​​  = t, ​d​i​​)​​is the receiver’s posterior that sender has type t​​ con-
  ditional on the receiver’s type and, of course, the public signal and the sender’s
  action.
         We are interested in Perfect Bayesian equilibria that satisfy the D1 criterion (Cho
  and Kreps 1987). Throughout the paper we assume that social image concerns ​​hi​​​ are
distributed smoothly and that direct payoffs from the preferred action (​V​A​​ and ​​V​B​​)
are not too small relative to these social image concerns. Formally, we impose the
following assumption, and in online Appendix Section A.2 we show that otherwise
we might get multiple equilibria.

 ASSUMPTION 1: Social image concerns ​​hi​​​ are independent of type t​​i​​​ and are
­distributed on [​​m, M]​​with c.d.f. ​F​(h)​​and p.d.f. ​f ​(h)​​such that f​ ​(h)​h​(h − ​Ṽ ​)​ ≤ ​Ṽ ​,
where ​​Ṽ ​  = min​{​VA​ ​​, ​VB​ ​​}​.​ In addition, ​​Ṽ ​ ≥ ​
                                                                (​p​H​​  − ​p​L​​)​M​.




         10
            This reputational payoff is exogenously given in the model, but one can easily see how it may be endogenized,
     and how it may even get an instrumental component. In online Appendix Section A.5, we model the behavior of
     a receiver who can share money with the sender in a dictator game, and argue that modeling receivers as having
     homophily in addition to altruism predicts that the sender’s payoff is monotonically increasing in the receiver’s
     posterior about the sender’s type. Our modeling choice maps well into our second experiment, and is consistent
     with existent empirical evidence. For instance, Hoffman, McCabe, and Smith (1996) document that social distance
     decreases transfers in dictator games, and Fowler and Kam (2007) show that donations to individuals of a different
     political orientation in a dictator game are lower. More broadly, perception of proximity of preferences between the
     two parties could have other material consequences, for example, by making credible communication possible in a
     Crawford and Sobel (1982) style model.
3530                                  THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                  NOVEMBER 2020



                                                   B. Analysis

   Denote the share of type ​A​in the society from the standpoint of a citizen who
learned that his/her type is t​​and got public signal ​s​by ​​Pt​​​​(s).​​ By Bayes’ formula,
we have

                 θ​(s)​ ​p​  2H​ ​ + ​(1 − θ​(s)​)​ ​p​  2L​ 
 P​A​​​(s)​  = ​ ________________
                    ​;​
                 θ​(s)​ ​p​H​​  + ​(1 − θ​(s)​)​ ​p​L​​
	​


                 θ​(s)​ ​p​H​​​(1 − ​p​H​​)​ + ​(1 − θ​(s)​)​ ​p​L​​​(1 − ​p​L​​)​
 P​B​​​(s)​  = ​ ___________________________
                                                                            ​
                     θ​(s)​​(1 − ​p​H​​)​ + ​(1 − θ​(s)​)​​(1 − ​p​L​​)​
	​                                                                               ,​



where

              ⎧____________
                          θμ
                 ​     ​ if s = ​p​H​​
              ⎪ θμ + ​(1 − θ)​​(1 − μ)​
 θ(​ s)​  = ​​⎨​​​   
	​                                      ​ ​   ​​
                      θ​(1 − μ)​
              ⎪____________
               ​       ​ if s = ​p​L​​
              ⎩ θ​(1 − μ)​ + ​(1 − θ)​μ


is the probability that ​p = ​p​H​​ conditional on signal ​s​only. We will drop the argu-
ment ​s​and write ​​P​A​​ and ​​P​B​​ if this does not cause confusion.

PROPOSITION 1: Under Assumption 1 there is a unique Perfect Bayesian equilib-
rium that satisfies the D1 criterion. In the private decision case, citizen ​i​chooses the
action that corresponds to his type, ​​di​​​  = ​t​i​​. In the public decision case:

   (i) If ​​V​B​​  ≤ m ​PB​ ​​​(​PA​ ​​  + ​P​B​​  − 1)​,​ then citizen ​i​chooses ​​di​​​  = A​;

  (ii) If ​​V​B​​  ∈ ​(m ​P​B​​​(​P​A​​  + ​P​B​​  − 1),​ M​(2​P​B​​  − 1)​)​,​ then citizen ​i​ of type ​A​
       chooses ​​d​i​​  = A​, while citizen of type ​B​chooses ​​d​i​​  = A​if ​​h​i​​ is above some
       threshold and ​​d​i​​  = B​otherwise;

 (iii) If ​​V​B​​  ≥ M​(2​P​B​​  − 1)​​and ​​V​A​​  ≥ M​(1 − 2​P​A​​)​,​ then citizen ​i​chooses ​​di​​​  = ​t​i​​;

  (iv) If ​​VA​ ​​  ∈ ​(m​(1 − ​P​A​​)​​(1 − ​P​A​​  − ​P​B​​),​ M​(1 − 2​P​A​​)​)​,​ then citizen ​i​ of type ​B​
       chooses ​​di​​​  = B​, while citizen of type ​A​chooses ​​d​i​​  = B​if ​​h​i​​ is above some
       threshold and ​​di​​​  = A​otherwise;

   (v) If ​​V​A​​  ≤ m​(1 − ​P​A​​)​​(1 − ​P​A​​  − ​P​B​​)​,​ then citizen ​i​chooses ​​di​​​  = B​.

   These cases are exhaustive and mutually exclusive.

   Let us now study comparative statics with respect to ​s​. Notice that ​s​ enters utility​​
( )​​twice. The first instance, in ​​Pr​i​​​(t​j​​​  = t ∣ s, ​ti​​​),​​ is due to the actor believing that
 1
VOL. 110 NO. 11                  BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                 3531



the audience is more likely to consist of ​A​ types (​B​ types) if ​s = ​pH                    ​ ​​ (​s = ​p​L​​).
The second, in ​​Pr​j​​​(t​​i​​  = t ∣ s, ​tj​​​  = t, ​d​i​​),​​ captures that the audience members’ pos-
terior that the actor is type ​A​ (​B​) is higher if ​s = ​p​H​​ (​s = ​p​L​​). Both effects push
the citizen toward choosing action ​A​ (​B​) if ​s = ​p​H​​ (​s = ​p​L​​). The former effect
is straightforward: if the audience is more likely to consist of ​A​types, then choos-
ing action ​A​is more likely to boost one’s social image from their viewpoint. The
latter effect is slightly subtler: if a member of the audience has a strong prior that
the sender is type ​A,​ it is difficult for a sender of type ​A​to persuade her otherwise,
and he might as well give up on the social image concerns and choose the action
he likes.
   The intuition above is summarized in the following proposition.

PROPOSITION 2: In the public decision case, citizen is (weakly) more likely to
choose ​d​​i​​  = A​ (respectively, ​d​i​​​  = B​) if he receives signal s​ = ​pH
                                                                                ​ ​​ (respec-
tively, ​s = ​p​L​​) as compared to the case of no signal.

    Let us now analyze how signal ​s​affects the posterior probability that the citi-
zen who chose action ​A​is indeed type ​A.​ Recall that ​​PB​ ​​​(​p​L​​)​​denotes the posterior
of type ​B​individual about the share of type ​A​in the society if the public signal
is ​s = ​p​L​​.

PROPOSITION 3: Suppose that ​​VB​ ​​  > M​(2​PB​ ​​​(​p​L​​)​  − 1)​,​ so for low signal ​s = ​p​L​​,
citizens of type ​t​i​​​  = B​choose action ​​di​​​  = B​. Then the audience’s posterior that a
citizen who chose action ​A​is indeed type ​A​is (weakly) lower for high signal ​s = ​p​H​​
than for low signal ​s = ​p​L​​, and strictly so if ​​V​B​​  < M​(2​PB​ ​​​(​p​H​​)​  − 1)​.​ (The converse
is true for the posterior probability that the citizen is type ​B​.)

   In other words, if for signal s​ = ​p​L​​, indicating that type ​B​is relatively fre-
quent, citizens of type ​B​choose the corresponding action, then anyone who chose
action ​A​must be indeed type ​A,​ i.e., the posterior is equal to 1. A signal ​s = ​pH     ​ ​​
indicating that type ​A​is more frequent might lead to some ​B​type citizens picking
action ​A,​ which makes it possible that the citizen who chose action ​A​is actually
type ​B​, which brings the posterior below ​1​. Of course, in the absence of an audience,
i.e., in the private case, this posterior equals ​1​for either signal. This posterior also
equals to ​1​in the public case with signal ​s = ​  p​L​​, so, the public case with ​s = ​p​H​​
is the only one in which this posterior may be lower than ​1.​ These comparative
statics results are illustrated in online Appendix Section A.3 with a numerical
example.


                            II. Experiment 1: Expressing Xenophobia

                                        A. Experimental Design

   Between August and October 2018, an online panel survey company recruited
participants (N = 1,600) from the seven counties composing the Pittsburgh, PA
metropolitan statistical area (Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette,
­
3532                                  THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                  NOVEMBER 2020



Washington, Westmoreland).11 Each panelist could participate in the survey only
once.12
    After participants answered a number of demographic questions, we randomized
the perceptions of Trump’s popularity among the respondents’ peers using a novel
strategy that exploited the variation in the identity of the winner of the popular vote in
the 2016 Presidential election across overlapping geographical areas. While Donald
Trump won the popular vote in Pittsburgh’s metropolitan area, Hillary Clinton won
it in Allegheny, the county where Pittsburgh is located. At the beginning of the sur-
vey, respondents were told three facts about Pittsburgh history and politics. One-half
of the participants were randomized into the Trump Won condition, and had one of
the facts state that:

           In the 2016 US Presidential Election, Donald Trump won Pittsburgh’s
           metropolitan area.

  The other half of the participants were instead randomized into the Clinton Won
condition, and were told that:

           In the 2016 US Presidential Election, Hillary Clinton won Pittsburgh’s
           county.

   The remaining two bullet points were the same for both groups of participants
and contained neutral historical information about Pittsburgh politics. These two
extra bullets were included to limit the participants’ ability to infer the purpose of
the study.
   In the next part of the intervention, we measured the perceived social acceptabil-
ity of strong ­anti-immigrant sentiment using a donation experiment with real stakes.
Participants were first told that they would be given the opportunity to make a dona-
tion to a randomly drawn organization that could either be anti- or ­pro-immigration.
Before the organization was revealed, the participants were also told that the dona-
tion would not be subtracted from their payment for participating in the survey, and
that in case they authorized the donation they would be paid an extra $1. We analyze
the behavior of the participants who were asked to donate to the organization we
were interested in: the Federation of American Immigration Reform.13 To make sure
that the participants were aware of the organization’s very strong ­anti-immigration



     11
        The company, Qualtrics, is also used by Elías, Lacetera, and Macis (2019) and works as a panel aggregator
 that leverages a variety of actively managed participant databases. The databases consist of online participants who
 opted into participating in market research studies in exchange for incentives. On a quarterly basis, quality eval-
 uations are performed by t­hird-party data specialists to evaluate the databases on key aspects including response
 quality and consistency of the panelists.
     12
        See the survey script in online Appendix C.2. The reader can access the survey information sheet and interac-
tively follow the survey at http://ssd.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_erhJZh0coOf0u6F (accessed on July 6, 2020).
     13
        Our original goal was to assign only 1 percent of participants to make a donation to the ­pro-immigration
organization, since this decision was not our outcome of interest, and we wanted instead to maximize power for the
analysis of donations to the ­anti-immigration organization. In other words, we focused on xenophobic behavior, and
therefore did not test the full set of predictions of our model, in particular, the stigmatization of tolerant behavior.
As a result, we did not plan to have enough observations (and thus statistical power) to analyze donations to the
­pro-immigration organization. Unfortunately, due to an implementation error, 100 percent of the participants were
 actually assigned to the ­anti-immigration organization.
VOL. 110 NO. 11            BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                   3533



stance, a few more details about the organization and its founder were provided in
the experiment:

         The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) is an
         ­immigration-reduction organization of concerned individuals who believe
          that immigration laws must be reformed, and seeks to reduce overall
          immigration (both legal and illegal) into the United States. The founder
          of FAIR is John Tanton, author of “The Immigration Invasion” who wrote
          “I’ve come to the point of view that for ­European-American society and
          culture to persist requires a ­European-American majority, and a clear one
          at that.”

   In addition to the first randomization informing subjects about either Trump’s
or Clinton’s victory, we introduced a second layer of ­cross-randomization at the
donation stage. All of the participants were told that the results of the survey would
be posted online. The link to the website was given to all participants, so that it was
clear to each participant that other participants (who came from the same geograph-
ical area around Pittsburgh, a fact known to the participants) would have access
to the result of the survey. Importantly, however, one-half of the participants were
assured that their individual responses would be kept completely anonymous, and
that the results would be posted in aggregate form as percentages only: we refer to
this condition as the private condition. Specifically, participants were told:

         The anonymized results from this survey will be posted on our website in
         approximately one month. Results will be reported as percentages only, so
         your individual response to the survey will remain anonymous. We will
         notify you when the results become available on our website, [website
         link].

   The other half of the subjects were not given this assurance of anonymity. In
practice, their decision appeared on the website in anonymous form as for the other
half of the participants. Importantly, however, their decisions were not reported as
percentages in aggregated form: instead, for each participant, the website reported
the (anonymous) survey response ID and the individual donation decision. To avoid
deception, the subjects were never explicitly told that their personal details would be
published on the website along with their donation decision. The participants, how-
ever, were given clues suggesting that their name and ­email could be published on
the website together with their individual donation decision. This is what we refer
to as the public condition:

         The results from this survey, including your individual donation decision
         and the donation decisions of all of the other Pittsburgh respondents to this
         survey, will be posted on our website in approximately one month. There
         is no need to provide your name, ­email, etc. here; the survey company
         we work with has this information already. We will notify you when the
         results become available on our website, [website link].

   Note that the survey company indeed had access to the participants’ personally
identifiable information, but we (the experimenters) did not. As a result, the state-
ments in both conditions were factually true.
3534                            THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                        NOVEMBER 2020



   After the donation decision, participants were asked to predict the share of
Pittsburgh voters who agree with the following ­anti-immigration statements:

         For European-American society and culture to persist requires a
         ­European-American majority, and a clear one at that.


and

         Both legal and illegal immigration should be drastically reduced because
         immigrants undermine American culture and do not respect American
         values.


   This provides two measures of the perceived local popularity of ­anti-immigrant
sentiment. At the end of the survey, the respondents answered a few demographic
questions.

                                       B. Link to Theory

     This experiment looks at the sender’s decision. We interpret type ​A​as xenophobic
and type ​B​as tolerant; action ​A​as the xenophobic action (authorizing the donation
to the ­anti-immigration organization) and action ​B​as the tolerant one (not autho-
rizing this donation). Absent social image concerns, xenophobic individuals should
strictly prefer action ​A​ (they help an aligned organization and get a dollar) and
tolerant ones should strictly prefer action ​B​ (implicitly, we assume that associat-
ing with the organization creates more than a dollar of disutility for tolerant peo-
ple). The citizens are our subjects (survey participants), and the audience (in the
public setting) are those who would visit the website we provided. We interpret
information that Trump won Pittsburgh MSA as the high signal about the share of
type ​A​, ​s = ​pH ​ ​​, and information that Clinton won Pittsburgh’s county as the low
signal ​s = ​p​L​​.
     In terms of first differences, the model (Proposition 2) predicts that citizens who
got signal ​s = ​p​H​​ are weakly more likely to choose the xenophobic action than
those who got signal ​s = ​pL​ ​​ in the public setting, and that there is no difference
in the private setting. Moreover, within the ​s = ​pL​ ​​ setting, people are weakly less
likely to choose the xenophobic action in public than in private, and the opposite is
true if ​s = ​p​H​​.
     The extent to which these inequalities are strict depend on the parameters of the
model (as Proposition 1 helps clarify). If ​s = ​pL​ ​​, citizens are strictly less likely to
choose the xenophobic action in public than in private if ​​V​A​​  < M​(1 − 2​P​A​​​(​p​L​​)​)​,​
that is, if the direct payoff for a xenophobe from choosing the xenophobic action ​​V​A​​
is lower than the social pressure to choose the tolerant action because his posterior
about the share of xenophobes ​​P​A​​​(​p​L​​)​​is low. For signal ​s = ​p​H​​, however, citizens
are strictly more likely to choose the xenophobic action in public than in private
if ​​V​B​​  < M​(1 − 2​P​B​​​(​p​H​​)​),​​ that is, if the direct payoff for a tolerant from choosing
the tolerant action ​​VB​ ​​ is lower than the social pressure to choose the xenophobic
action because his posterior about the share of xenophobes ​​PB​ ​​​(​p​H​​)​​is high. Finally,
citizens who got signal ​s = ​p​H​​ are strictly more likely to choose the xenophobic
VOL. 110 NO. 11                          BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                              3535



                                        p < 0.001                                                 p = 0.594
                            40
                                                                              p < 0.001
                                                          p = 0.894
                            35


                            30




           Donation rates
                            25


                            20


                            15


                            10    30%               20%                                   31%                 33%
                                                                        Private
                                                                        Public
                            5


                            0
                                 Clinton Won treatment                                   Trump Won treatment

                                           Figure 1. Experiment 1: Donation Rates

Notes: The two bars on the left display donation rates to the ­anti-immigration organization for individuals in the
private and public conditions in the Clinton Won treatment group (respectively N = 392 and N = 408), and the two
bars on the right display those for individuals in the private and public conditions in the Trump Won treatment group
(respectively N = 419 and N = 381). Error bars reflect 95 percent confidence intervals. Top horizontal bars show
­p-values for t-tests of equality of means between different experimental conditions.



action than those who got signal ​s = ​pL​ ​​ in the public setting as long as at least one
of the two conditions are satisfied.14

                                                      C. Main Results

   Online Appendix Table B1 provides evidence that individual characteristics are
balanced across all four experimental conditions, confirming that the randomization
was successful. Figure 1 displays the main findings from this experiment. The exper-
imental results support the predictions of the model.15 First, public donation rates
are higher in the Trump Won condition than in the Clinton Won condition (33 percent
and 20 percent, respectively, ­p-value ​​<​  0.001). Second, we find no significant dif-
ference in private donation rates between the Trump Won and the Clinton Won con-
ditions (respectively, 31 percent and 30 percent with ­p-value = 0.894), suggesting

    14
       One caveat is that the model assumes that the same signal is obtained by both the senders and receivers,
which corresponds to survey participants expecting the audience to consist of other survey participants or those
who knew which politician won the election in Pittsburgh area. This is reasonable, as we provided the link to the
survey participants only. However, if they expected the results of the experiment to be available to a larger inter-
net audience, including those who did not know who won in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area or county but who
nevertheless mattered for the purposes of social image concerns, this would require a model where senders get the
signal but receivers do not. As we show in online Appendix Section A.4, the results of Proposition 2 continue to
hold as stated. Thus, the predictions of our framework are robust to our subjects’ interpretation of who exactly will
get access to the results of the survey.
    15
       Specifically, for parameter values where ​​V​A​ < M​(1 − 2​P​A​(​p​L​)​)​,​ but ​​V​B​ ≥ M​(2​P​B​(​p​H​)​− 1)​.​ In other words,
the results are consistent with subjects believing that there are sufficiently few xenophobes in Pittsburgh after get-
ting ​s = ​pL​ ​,​ and not too many even if ​s = ​pH
                                                   ​ ​.​
3536                                  THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                  NOVEMBER 2020



that the information about the winner of the popular vote is not changing ­privately
held xenophobia. The difference in differences between donation rates in private
across conditions and donation rates in public across conditions is statistically sig-
nificant (­  p-value = 0.008). Moreover, we find that these results are primarily due to
a significant wedge between private and public donations rates in the Clinton Won
(the ­p-value of a t-test of equality is ​<​0.001), with no significant difference in the
Trump Won treatment ( ­p-value = 0.594). As discussed above, these results are also
consistent with the model, and indicate that in a city like Pittsburgh the victory of
Trump did not result in a significant pressure for tolerant individuals to behave as
xenophobes in public, while knowledge about Clinton victory is associated with
social pressure for xenophobic individuals to appear more tolerant in public. To
reiterate, these results indicate that the information provided about Trump winning
the popular vote in the Pittsburgh area causally increased the social acceptability
of the action to the point of eliminating the social stigma associated with it among
the participants who were told that Clinton won the popular vote.16 Table 1 displays
 the difference in differences results in regression format and shows that our results
 are unchanged when individual covariates are included.17 The table also displays
­p-values from permutation tests, showing that our findings are robust to that infer-
 ence method.

                                        D. Evidence of Mechanism

    Following the donation decisions, we also asked participants about their percep-
tions of the local popularity of ­anti-immigrant sentiments. We note that asking these
questions after the donations could lead to mismeasurement of perceptions if, for
example, participants inflated their reported perceptions of ­anti-immigrant senti-
ments because they just made an ­anti-immigration donation themselves. Because
of this, the analysis in this section should be taken with caution. Nevertheless, the
results presented here provide useful insights for the understanding of the possible
mechanisms behind our main findings, and are consistent with the interpretation that
the electoral victory of Donald Trump increased the willingness of participants to
express xenophobic views through an update in their perceptions of the popularity
of ­anti-immigrant sentiments.18

    16
       It is important to note that Experiment 1 identifies the relative effect of information about the two candidates
winning the local popular vote, but is not informative about whether it was the victory of Trump that increased the
social acceptability of xenophobic actions, or if instead it was the victory of Clinton that could have generated social
stigma for acting in a xenophobic way. The results from Experiment 1B, presented in the online Appendix, suggest
that the former hypothesis holds, i.e., that there was a “Trump effect” rather than a “Clinton effect.” We document
that, before the election, participants in the control condition who received no information about the rising popular-
ity of Trump were less likely to make a donation to the ­anti-immigrant organization in public than they were in pri-
vate. However, increases in participants’ perceptions of Trump’s popularity (either through experimental variation
or through the “natural experiment” of his victory) eliminated the wedge between private and public behavior.
    17
       Heterogeneous treatment effects by race, gender, age, marital status, education, and income are reported in
online Appendix Table B2. The direction of the treatment effect is the same in all subgroups, and differences in the
magnitude of the effects between subgroups are never statistically significant. Point estimates indicate, however,
that the wedge in donations between public and private in the Clinton Won treatment is lower among Whites than
among ­non-Whites, and that the reduction in the wedge in the Public condition is complete among Whites but only
partial among ­non-Whites.
    18
       We ask these questions after the donation, and not before, because in this study we are interested in under-
standing whether information from elections per se leads to a natural change in social norms, without any need
for external additional information priming people to think about the popularity of those norms. Between having
VOL. 110 NO. 11                   BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                  3537



                      Table 1—Experiment 1: Difference-in-Differences Regressions

                                                                 Dummy: individual authorizes donation
                                                                   to anti-immigration organization
                                                                    (1)                             (2)
         Public                                                   −0.103                          −0.109
                                                                  (0.031)                         (0.031)
                                                                  [0.001]                        [<0.001]
         Trump Won                                                 0.004                           0.000
                                                                  (0.032)                         (0.033)
                                                                  [0.897]                         [0.988]
         Public × Trump Won                                        0.120                           0.130
                                                                  (0.045)                         (0.045)
                                                                  [0.002]                         [0.001]
         Mean donation rate
          Clinton Won private treatment                            0.304


         Controls                                                   No                              Yes
         Observations                                              1,600                           1,587
         R2                                                        0.012                           0.022

         Notes: Column 1 presents OLS regression of a dummy variable for whether an individual
         donates to the anti-immigration organization on a dummy for the public condition, a dummy for
         the Trump Won condition, and a dummy for the Trump Won, public condition. The Clinton Won,
         private condition is the omitted group, for which we report the mean donation rate. Column 2
         replicates and adds individual covariates (gender, age, marital status, years of education, house-
         hold income, and race). Robust standard errors in parentheses. p-values from permutation tests
         with 1,000 repetitions in brackets.



   Figure 2 shows that, consistent with the underlying mechanism of updates in
perceptions about the local popularity of xenophobic views, the distribution of per-
ceptions about the local popularity of these views held by participants in the Trump
Won treatment is to the right of the distribution of perceptions held by participants
in the Clinton Won treatment. The average beliefs are, respectively, 50.1 percent and
42.6 percent ( ­p-value ​​<​  0.001).
   Given this strong difference in perceptions caused by the treatment, we also use
the Trump Won treatment as an instrument for perceptions. In Table 2, we present
evidence consistent with the idea that participants’ perceptions causally affect their
donation in public, but not in private. Panel A replicates the results of Figure 2, and
additionally shows that the Trump Won treatment is associated with higher percep-
tions of the popularity of ­anti-immigrant views both in the private and in the public
conditions. Moreover, these results are robust to the inclusion of individual covari-
ates. In panel B, we show that a one percentage point increase in the perception of
the local popularity of xenophobia increases donation rates in public by 2.3 percent-
age points. On the contrary, as expected, donations in private are unaffected by the
­experimentally induced difference in beliefs.19

this elicitation being potentially affected by our main outcome (the donation) or having our main outcome being
potentially affected by the elicitation, we chose the former since we wanted to avoid priming our respondents before
they made their donation decision.
    19
       Beyond the caveat on the measurement of perceptions discussed above, we view the IV results as suggestive
also because it is possible that the Trump Won treatment affects donation rates through other channels. However,
we find this unlikely. Indeed, all alternative channels not associated with social acceptability are ruled out by the
3538                                                           THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                        NOVEMBER 2020



                                      1


                                                  t-test p < 0.001
                                    0.8           K-S test p < 0.001




          Cumulative distribution
                                    0.6




                                    0.4
                                                                                                Clinton Won treatment
                                                                                                Trump Won treatment

                                    0.2




                                      0
                                          0               20            40             60              80               100
                                                         Perceived popularity of anti-immigrant sentiments


                                                        Figure 2. Experiment 1: Beliefs about Others

Notes: Empirical cumulative distributions of perceived popularity of ­anti-immigrant sentiments for individuals in
the Clinton Won treatment and in the Trump Won treatment (respectively N = 793 and N = 794). The two vertical
lines display the means of the two distributions. ­K-S p is the ­p-value of a ­Kolmogorov-Smirnov test of equality of
the two distributions, while t-test p is the ­p-value of a test of equality of means.




                                              III. Experiment 2: Sanctioning Xenophobic Expression

                                                                 A. Experimental Design

   In November 2018, an online panel survey company recruited participants
(N = 1,830) from the United States who had previously s­elf-identified as
Democrats.20 Each panelist could participate in the survey only once. The survey
was conducted on the online platform Qualtrics.
   First, all participants answered a number of demographic questions. The par-
ticipants of this experiment were randomized into one of four conditions, corre-
sponding to the four treatments of Experiment 1: the Clinton Won, private group,


fact that the donations in private do not change. A remaining possibility is that the Trump Won treatment might
have changed the perceived local acceptability of other behaviors, for example of acting selfishly: after all, Donald
Trump could be seen both as the ­anti-immigrant candidate and as the candidate of greed and ­self-interest (we thank
an anonymous referee for raising this point). The results of Experiment 3 (reported in online Appendix F), however,
help us rule out this hypothesis. The design of Experiment 3 is similar to that of Experiment 1: it uses donation
decisions made either in a private or in a public condition to study the social acceptability of a view. In Experiment
3, however, instead of varying the perceived local popularity of candidate Trump as we do in Experiment 1, we
directly randomize the perceived local popularity of ­anti-Muslim sentiments. Consistently with an update in the
perceived popularity of the view being the mechanism at play in both Experiment 1 and 3, we find similar patterns
in both experiments.
    20
       The company we used for this experiment is Prime Panels. See the survey script in online Appendix Section
C.3. The reader can access the survey information sheet and interactively follow the survey at http://ssd.az1.qual-
trics.com/jfe/form/SV_4VgnEZSmikzSf8p (accessed on July 6, 2020).
VOL. 110 NO. 11                   BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                       3539


                        Table 2—Experiment 1: Instrumental Variable Regressions

                                                                 Panel A. First-stage regressions
                                                       Perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views
                                              (1)            (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)
Trump Won treatment                          7.528        7.568          9.492       9.384          5.541       5.668
                                            (1.111)      (1.101)        (1.568)     (1.548)        (1.580)     (1.574)
Mean perceived share
 Clinton Won treatment                              42.588                      41.451                     43.666

                                                          Panel B. Instrumental variable regressions
                                                    Dummy: individual authorizes donation to anti-immigration
                                                                         organization
                                              (1)            (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)
Perceived share of voters                                                0.000       0.000          0.023       0.024
  holding xenophobic views                                              (0.003)     (0.003)        (0.008)     (0.008)
Mean donation rate at a 50 percent
  perceived share of voters                                                     0.305                      0.344
   holding xenophobic views

Sample                                          Full sample             Private treatment           Public treatment
Controls                                      No           Yes           No              Yes         No             Yes
Observations                                 1,587        1,587          802             802         785            785

Notes: Panel A presents OLS regressions of the perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views on a dummy
for the Trump Won treatment. Specifically, we measure the percentage of Pittsburgh voters the respondents believed
would agree with the quote “For European-American society and culture to persist requires a European-American
majority, and a clear one at that.” The Clinton Won treatment is the omitted group, for which we report the mean
perceived share. For columns 3, 4, 5, and 6 these estimates also represent the first stage of the instrumental variable
regressions presented in panel B. Panel B presents IV regressions of a dummy variable for whether an individual
donates to the anti-immigration organization on the perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views. The latter
is instrumented with the Trump Won treatment. We subtract 50 from the measure of the share, so that the intercept
of the regression represents the average donation rate at a perceived share of 50 percent. Columns 2 and 4 and 6 rep-
licate and add individual covariates (gender, age, marital status, years of education, household income, and race).
Robust standard errors in parentheses.


the Clinton Won, public group, the Trump Won, private group, and the Trump Won,
public group. Those in the two Clinton Won groups were told that we surveyed, in
another survey, participants from an area where Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Those
in the two Trump Won groups were told instead that we surveyed participants from
an area where Donald Trump won in 2016.21
   In Experiment 1, we studied how varying social pressure against xenophobia
affected xenophobic expression. In Experiment 2, we focus on how varying social
pressure for xenophobic expression affects sanctioning of this type of expression.
In particular, we were interested in studying the sanctioning of xenophobic expres-
sion in a situation where people believe that xenophobia is so popular that there
might be enough social pressure for tolerant individuals to choose the observable
xenophobic action. To that end, we made an ­ex ante design choice not to disclose to
the participants of Experiment 2 that the previous study was about Pittsburgh. This
would allow for a larger positive update in perceptions about the local popularity


    21
       The information provided to both groups of participants, although similarly contradictory, is nonetheless
factually true, with the caveat that it relies on two different definitions of “areas”: the county for the Clinton Won
condition, and the MSA for the Trump Won condition. Participants were not informed about the precise definition
of “area” used in their treatment.
3540                                    THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                   NOVEMBER 2020



of xenophobia stemming from information about Trump’s victory in the area of the
first study (and it is indeed what we observe empirically, as shown in Figures 2 and
4, which display participants’ beliefs for both experiments).22
    All subjects were then presented with two ­anti-immigrant quotes (the same used
in Experiment 1) and were asked to predict the share of voters in the other partici-
pant’s area that they believed would agree with the quotes. This provides two mea-
sures of the beliefs that the participants in this experiment had about the popularity
of ­anti-immigrant sentiments in the area where the previous study took place.
    Next, the subjects (players 1) were informed that they had been matched with a
participant from the previous survey (player 2). Each player 1 was matched with a
random player 2 from one of the four original conditions. For example, a player 1
randomized into the Clinton Won, private group for Experiment 2 is defined as one
who was matched with a player 2 that was randomized into the Clinton Won, private
condition in Experiment 1. Players 1, however, were not informed that the previous
survey was an experiment with multiple treatment conditions. The subjects were
then told that player 2 authorized a donation to an ­anti-immigration organization,
after being shown the exact text of the question in which the donation was autho-
rized. Importantly, the text included either the text of the private treatment or of
the public treatment, so that the subject could fully understand the condition under
which the other participant made the donation choice. For example, players 1 in
the Trump Won, public group knew that the player 2 they were matched with was
from an area where Donald Trump won the 2016 election and decided to authorize a
donation to the ­anti-immigration organization knowing that their donation decision
would be published online, possibly along with their personal details. The subjects,
however, were not informed about the fact that the donation in the previous survey
was incentivized. 23
    Finally, players 1 were asked to play a dictator game in which they could decide
how to split $2 between themselves and player 2. The subjects were told that their
decision on how much to give to the other participant was anonymous, and that
when making his donation decision, player 2 did not know that they would be play-
ing this ­follow-up game.

                                                B. Link to Theory

   This experiment looks at receivers’ interpretation of senders’ decisions. As above,
we interpret type A as xenophobic and type B as tolerant; action A as the senders’
xenophobic action (authorizing the donation to the ­anti-immigration organization)
and action B as the tolerant one (not authorizing this donation). Absent social image
concerns, xenophobic senders should have strictly preferred action A (they helped an
aligned organization) and tolerant ones should have strictly preferred action B (they

    22
       In other words, in Experiment 1 we found ourselves in the region of the model where ​​V​B​≥ M​(2​P​B​(​p​H​)​− 1)​:​
there was social pressure for xenophobes to choose tolerant actions in the Clinton Won treatment. In Experiment 2,
we chose the design to ensure that the Trump Won signal was strong enough to ensure that ​​VB​ ​ < M​(2​PB​ ​(​p​H​)​− 1)​,​
so there is nontrivial social pressure for tolerant individuals to act as xenophobes. In this case, Proposition 3 predicts
a strict inequality in the posteriors following the two signals.
    23
       This was done to facilitate player 1’s inference about player 2’s motivation to make the donation: we elim-
inate the possibility of an inference that player 2 made the donation because of financial incentives, that is, inde-
pendently of private views or social pressure.
VOL. 110 NO. 11                 BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                               3541



refused to associate with the organization). Moreover, the subjects of Experiment 2
(players 1 in the dictator game) are the receivers in the model, who judge the action
of the senders and decide how much to share with them in a dictator game. All the
senders (players 2) have chosen action A, since in Experiment 1 they decided to
authorize the donation to the ­anti-immigration organization: their type, however, is
not directly known, but can be inferred by the receivers. We think of participants as
t­ype-B members of the audience, since they are all Democrats (and thus unlikely
 to be xenophobic). Finally, we interpret information that Trump won as the high
 signal about the share of type A in the senders area, ​s = ​pH             ​ ​​, and information that
 Clinton won as the low signal ​s = ​p​L​​, for which we believe no t­ype-B tolerant
 senders would take the xenophobic action A in public (that is, as in Proposition 3,
 we assume ​​V​B​​  > M​(2​P​B​​​(​p​L​​)​  − 1)​​to rule out the case in which even the low signal
is enough to generate social pressure for tolerant individuals to act as xenophobes).
    The model predicts that in private only ­type-A senders will chose action A. As a
result, the receivers’ posterior that a player 2 who chose the xenophobic action is a
xenophobe equals ​1​in the private case, regardless of which candidate won locally.
According to Proposition 3, in public, this posterior is also equal to 1 in the case
of the low signal ​s = ​p​L​​ (there is no social pressure for someone tolerant to act as
 a xenophobe in the Clinton Won, public treatment). In contrast, with the high sig-
 nal ​s = ​p​H​​, some tolerant senders might choose the xenophobic action due to social
 pressure. As a result, the posterior that player 2 who chose the xenophobic action
 is a xenophobe would be weakly less in the Trump Won, public treatment than in
 the Clinton Won, public treatment, and strictly so if ​​V​B​​  < M​(2​P​B​​​(​p​H​​)​  − 1),​​ i.e., if
the posterior of tolerant people about the share of xenophobes following ​s = ​p​H​​ is
 sufficiently high.
    Since all receivers (player 1) in our experiment are Democrats, the lower poste-
 rior that player 2 is a xenophobe should result in lower punishment/higher altruism
 toward player 1. Thus, we would expect donations by dictators to be higher in the
 Trump Won, public treatment than in any other treatment, and the donations in the
 other three treatments to be similar.24
    It is important to emphasize that in a more general model that allows for more
than two levels of xenophobia, player 1 could infer that a player who donated in
the Clinton Won, public treatment is more xenophobic than one who donated in the
Clinton Won, private treatment. Indeed, by publicly expressing xenophobic views in
an environment where those views are unpopular player 2 would reveal to be even
more extreme than when donating in private. In this case, the punishment by player
1 would be higher for a player 2 in that condition, something that cannot be the case
in the present, ­two-type version of the model.

                                            C. Main Results

   Online Appendix Table B3 provides evidence that individual characteristics are
balanced across all four experimental conditions, confirming that the randomization
was successful.

    24
       In online Appendix Section A.5 we provide a simple microfoundation for the link between posteriors about
player 1 and donations to player 1 based on homophily and altruism, as discussed in footnote 10.
3542                                THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                              NOVEMBER 2020



    Figure 3 displays our main findings from Experiment 2. Panel A displays com-
parisons of average donations across groups. In the Clinton Won, private, Clinton
Won, public, and Trump Won, private conditions the average amounts given are very
similar, at $0.78, $0.81, and $0.78, respectively. The ­p-value of a test of joint equal-
ity of the three averages is 0.739. In each of these conditions there was no pressure
to donate to the ­anti-immigration organization in order to pander to the majority:
in the two private conditions there is no social pressure, and in the Clinton Won,
public condition the desire to pander to the majority would, if anything, pressure the
subject into not authorizing the donation.25 From the decision to donate, the subject
could then infer that player 2 was likely to truly hold xenophobic views. The lack of
difference across the two private conditions helps us deal with alternative interpre-
tations, such as learning about local motives to privately oppose immigration (since
shifting perceptions on who won the election in player 2’s area could have changed
the perception of what that area is).
    In the Trump Won, public condition the average donation is $0.88, higher than in
the Clinton Won, private condition (­  p-value 0.006), the Clinton Won, public condi-
tion ( ­p-value 0.051), and Trump Won, private condition ( ­p-value 0.008). The one
in the Trump Won, public condition is the only donation that could have been driven
by the desire of player 2 to pander to the majority, complicating the inference that
player 1 could make about the ­anti-immigration views of the participant from the
previous study.
    Panel B compares the share of participants who do not share anything from their
$2 endowment with player 2. Here again, the percentages of subject deciding not to
transfer anything to the other participant are similar across the Clinton Won, private,
Clinton Won, public, and Trump Won, private conditions, at respectively 18 per-
cent, 21 percent, and 22 percent. The ­p-value of a test of joint equality of the three
averages is 0.374. Importantly, the share of participants not donating is 8 percent in
the Trump Won, public group, significantly lower than in the other three conditions
( ­p-value ​<​ 0.001 for all three pairwise comparisons).26
    Online Appendix Table B4 displays the results in regression format and shows
that our results are not changed when individual covariates are included.
    In online Appendix E we present the design and results from a similar experiment
conducted on mTurk, where participants were asked to play a dictator game with
another respondent in Switzerland, and where we manipulated perceptions of the
popularity of ­anti-Muslim sentiment in Switzerland, by randomly giving informa-
tion about the 2009 Swiss referendum that banned the construction of minarets in
that country.




    25
       Indeed, as suggested above, in a model with more than two types—for example, with tolerant, weakly xeno-
phobic, and strongly xenophobic individuals—in the Clinton Won, public condition, players 1 could sanction more
heavily those who donate in public than those who donate in private, because by publicly expressing xenophobic
views in an environment where those views are unpopular, players 2 reveal to be even more extreme than those
who donate only in private (for example, only strongly xenophobic individuals would donate in public, while both
weakly and strongly xenophobic individuals would donate in private). We do not find evidence consistent with this
alternative.
    26
       The median amount given was $1 in all four treatments, so we do not use it as an outcome.
VOL. 110 NO. 11                                       BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                 3543



            Panel A
                                                      p = 0.491                                               p = 0.008
                                         1                                                p = 0.051
                                                                                  p = 0.006
                                       0.9                                p = 0.739

                                       0.8




            Average donation amounts
                                       0.7

                                       0.6

                                       0.5    $0.78               $0.81                               $0.78               $0.88

                                       0.4

                                       0.3

                                       0.2                                            Private
                                                                                      Public
                                       0.1

                                         0
                                              Clinton Won treatment                                   Trump Won treatment
            Panel B
                                        0.3
                                                      p = 0.307                                               p < 0.001
                                                                                          p < 0.001
                                                                                  p < 0.001
                                                                          p = 0.374
                                       0.25


                                        0.2




          Share not donating
                                       0.15


                                        0.1


                                                                                      Private
                                       0.05                                           Public
                                               18%                21%                                  22%                 8%


                                          0
                                              Clinton Won treatment                                   Trump Won treatment

                                                        Figure 3. Experiment 2: Donation Rates

Notes: Panel A displays average donation amounts to the individuals from Experiment 1 in the four experimen-
tal conditions. The two bars on the left display donations for individuals in the private and public conditions in
the Clinton Won treatment group (respectively N = 466 and N = 474), and the two bars on the right display those
for individuals in the private and public conditions in the Trump Won treatment group (respectively N = 441 and
N = 449). Panel B displays the percent of subjects not making positive donations. Error bars reflect 95 percent con-
fidence intervals. Top horizontal bars show ­p-values for t-tests of equality of means between different experimen-
tal conditions.


                                                           D. Evidence of Mechanism

   Figure 4 shows that, consistent with the underlying mechanism of updates in per-
ceptions about the local popularity of xenophobic views in player 2’s area, the dis-
tribution of perceptions about the local popularity of these views held by ­dictators in
3544                                                    THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                           NOVEMBER 2020




                                      1

                                              t-test p < 0.001
                                              K-S test p < 0.001
                                    0.8




          Cumulative distribution
                                    0.6




                                    0.4
                                                                                            Clinton Won treatment
                                                                                            Trump Won treatment

                                    0.2




                                      0
                                          0           20            40             60              80               100
                                                    Perceived popularity of anti-immigrant sentiments


                                                    Figure 4. Experiment 2: Beliefs about Others

Notes: Empirical cumulative distributions of perceived popularity of ­anti-immigrant sentiments for individuals in
the Clinton Won treatment and in the Trump Won treatment (respectively N = 940 and N = 890). The two vertical
lines display the means of the two distributions. ­K-S test p is the ­p-value of a ­Kolmogorov-Smirnov test of equality
of the two distributions, while t-test p is the ­p-value of a test of equality of means.



the Trump Won treatment is to the right of the distribution of perceptions held by dic-
tators in the Clinton Won treatment. The average beliefs are respectively 53.5 per-
cent and 44.9 percent (­  p-value ​​<​  0.001).
   We can again use the Trump Won treatment as an instrument for perceptions. In
Table 3, we present evidence that the dictators’ perceptions causally affected the
amount they gave and the probability of giving when the subject from Experiment
1 donated in public, but not when they donated in private. Panel A replicates the
results of Figure 4, and additionally shows that the Trump Won treatment is associ-
ated with higher perceptions of the popularity of ­anti-immigrant views both in the
private and in the public conditions. Moreover, these results are robust to the inclu-
sion of individual covariates. In panel B, we show that a 1 percentage point increase
in the perception of the local popularity of xenophobia increases the amount shared
by dictators in the public condition by $0.007 (the IV estimate however is noisy,
with a ­p-value of 0.054). On the contrary, as expected, donations in the private con-
ditions are unaffected by the ­experimentally induced difference in beliefs. In panel
C, we show that a 1 percentage point increase in perception of the local popularity
of xenophobic views is also associated with a 1.2 percentage points decrease in
the share of dictators deciding not to transfer anything to players 2 who made a
donation in the public condition (­  p-value ​<​  0.001), while there are again no sig-
nificant differences in the private condition. Taken together, these results indicate
that manipulating beliefs about the relative popularity of Donald Trump: (i) has the
expected effect on the perceived popularity of ­anti-immigrant views in the area of
player 2; (ii) is associated with lower punishment in the public condition (which is
VOL. 110 NO. 11                   BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                                       3545


                        Table 3—Experiment 2: Instrumental Variable Regressions

                                                                 Panel A. First-stage regressions
                                                       Perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views
                                              (1)            (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)
Trump Won treatment                          8.544       8.795           6.438       6.692        10.614       10.820
                                            (1.155)     (1.148)         (1.666)     (1.662)       (1.597)      (1.590)
Mean perceived share
 Clinton Won treatment                              44.948                      45.118                     44.781

                                                             Panel B. Instrumental variable regressions
                                                               Amount donated in the dictator game
                                              (1)            (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)
Perceived share of voters                                                0.000       0.000         0.007        0.007
  holding xenophobic views                                              (0.006)     (0.006)       (0.004)      (0.003)
Mean dependent variable at a 50 percent
  perceived share of voters                                                     0.784                      0.846
   holding xenophobic views

                                                        Panel C. Instrumental variable regressions
                                                Dummy: individual does not share anything in the dictator game
                                              (1)            (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)
Perceived share of voters                                                0.005       0.005        −0.012       −0.012
  holding xenophobic views                                              (0.005)     (0.004)       (0.003)      (0.003)
Mean dependent variable at a 50 percent
  perceived share of voters                                                     0.209                      0.146
   holding xenophobic views

Sample                                          Full sample              Private treatment          Public treatment
Controls                                      No          Yes             No             Yes        No              Yes
Observations                                 1,830       1,830            907            907        923             923

Notes: Panel A presents OLS regressions of the perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views on a dummy
for the Trump Won treatment. Specifically, we measure the percentage of Pittsburgh voters the respondents believed
would agree with the quote “For European-American society and culture to persist requires a European-American
majority, and a clear one at that.” The Clinton Won treatment is the omitted group, for which we report the mean
perceived share. For columns 3, 4, 5, and 6 these estimates also represent the first stage of the instrumental variable
regressions presented in panel B. Panel B presents IV regressions of a dummy variable for whether an individual
donates to the anti-immigration organization on the perceived share of voters holding xenophobic views. The latter
is instrumented with the Trump Won treatment. We subtract 50 from the measure of the share, so that the intercept
of the regression represents the average donation rate at a perceived share of 50 percent. Columns 2 and 4 and 6 rep-
licate and add individual covariates (gender, age, marital status, years of education, household income, and race).
Robust standard errors in parentheses.



when the social pressure for the recipient to express those views could be present);
and (iii) does not have any effect in the private condition (where social pressure is
absent).

                                                IV. Conclusion

   In this paper, we study how social norms, usually thought of as relatively sta-
ble and persistent, can change rapidly when new information becomes available.
In our first experiment, we show that a positive, ­experimentally induced update in
people’s beliefs about Donald Trump’s local popularity increased their willingness
to publicly express xenophobic views. Using dictator games, we also find evidence
3546                                 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                                NOVEMBER 2020



 consistent with the prediction that individuals are sanctioned less for expressing a
 view that is popular in their environment.
    Our findings shed light on the factors that can trigger a rapid change in social
 norms, and in particular, norms against the expression of xenophobic views. Our
 results suggest that social norms regarding the expression of such views in the
 United States might have been causally changed by Trump’s rise in popularity and
 eventual electoral victory.27 More broadly, the mechanisms we study in this paper
might help explain the rise, and potential consequences, of other crucial recent
events such as the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom, and more generally the rise in
­anti-immigrant and ­anti-minority sentiment in the developed world.
    Our analysis suggests at least two lines for future work. One deals with the joint
 evolution of individual views and social norms. While we see no evidence that
 Donald Trump’s election changed people’s views on immigration in the short run, it
 is well possible that the changed social norm will expose people to views that will
 eventually influence their own. These individual views could eventually affect both
 social norms and political decisions. Thus, understanding how individuals acquire
 and change their preferences through social interactions is of utmost importance. An
 interesting and important question, for example, is whether laws prohibiting certain
 speech (such as those banning denial of the Holocaust in Germany and some other
 countries) are more effective in forming public opinion as compared to cases where
 such speech is not banned but highly stigmatized (as, e.g., in the United States).
    A different set of questions stems from our dictator game experiments. We
 observed that subjects were largely willing to forgive the individuals who publicly
 expressed xenophobic views in a setting where these views were expected to be
 more popular. Yet, they were remarkably unwilling to forgive the individual for
 privately expressing such views, despite knowing little about the reasons why he
 acquired them. This alone would be consistent with subjects viewing people from
 other settings as similar to them as individuals, but living in different social environ-
 ments, but this explanation is perhaps too simplistic. Nevertheless, understanding
 how people judge thoughts and actions of people different from their own and from
 different societies and cultures, and perhaps ultimately why social norms emerge, is
 another interesting avenue for future research.

                                                REFERENCES

Acemoglu, Daron, Tarek A. Hassan, and Ahmed Tahoun. 2018. “The Power of the Street: Evidence
   from Egypt’s Arab Spring.” Review of Financial Studies 31 (1): 1–42.
Acemoglu, Daron, and Matthew O. Jackson. 2017. “Social Norms and the Enforcement of Laws.”
   Journal of the European Economic Association 15 (2): 245–95.
Alesina, Alberto, Paola Giuliano, and Nathan Nunn. 2013. “On the Origins of Gender Roles: Women
   and the Plough.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 128 (2): 469–530.
Algan, Yann, and Pierre Cahuc. 2010. “Inherited Trust and Growth.” American Economic Review 100
   (5): 2060–92.


    27
       Of course, any extrapolation of our experimental results (in which we were able to exogenously vary beliefs
about the local results of the election) into a ­non-experimental context where elections occur naturally should be
interpreted with caution. Nevertheless, the results of the motivating experiment run around the time of the 2016
election and presented in online Appendix Section D are consistent with our interpretation: while weeks right before
the election there was a wedge between private and public xenophobic expression, the wedge disappeared in the
week immediately following the election.
VOL. 110 NO. 11               BURSZTYN ET AL.: FROM EXTREME TO MAINSTREAM                          3547


Ali, S. Nageeb, and Roland Bénabou. 2020. “Image versus Information: Changing Societal Norms and
   Optimal Privacy.” American Economic Journal: Microeconomics 12 (3): 116–64.
Ali, S. Nageeb, and Charles Lin. 2013. “Why People Vote: Ethical Motives and Social Incentives.”
   American Economic Journal: Microeconomics 5 (2): 73–98.
Allcott, Hunt, and Matthew Gentzkow. 2017. “Social Media and Fake News in the 2016 Election.”
   Journal of Economic Perspectives 31 (2): 211–36.
Andreoni, James, and B. Douglas Bernheim. 2009. “Social Image and the Fifty-Fifty Norm: A Theo-
   retical and Experimental Analysis of Audience Effects.” Econometrica 77 (5): 1607–36.
Andreoni, James, Nikos Nikiforakis, and Simon Siegenthaler. 2017. “Social Change and the Confor-
   mity Trap.” Unpublished.
Andreoni, James, Justin M. Rao, and Hannah Trachtman. 2017. “Avoiding the Ask: A Field Experi-
   ment on Altruism, Empathy, and Charitable Giving.” Journal of Political Economy 125 (3): 625–53.
Beaman, Lori, Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, Esther Duflo, Rohini Pande, and Petia Topalova. 2009.
   “Powerful Women: Does Exposure Reduce Bias?” Quarterly Journal of Economics 124 (4): 1497-
   540.
Bénabou, Roland, and Jean Tirole. 2006. “Incentives and Prosocial Behavior.” American Economic
   Review 96 (5): 1652–78.
Bénabou, Roland, and Jean Tirole. 2011. “Laws and Norms.” NBER Working Paper 17579.
Bernheim, B. Douglas. 1994. “A Theory of Conformity.” Journal of Political Economy 102 (5): 841–
   77.
Bursztyn, Leonardo, Georgy Egorov, and Stefano Fiorin. 2020. “Replication Data for: From Extreme
   to Mainstream: The Erosion of Social Norms.” American Economic Association [publisher],
   Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research [distributor]. https://doi.org/10.3886/
   E119846V1.
Bursztyn, Leonardo, Alessandra L. González, and David Yanagizawa-Drott. 2020. “Misperceived
   Social Norms: Women Working Outside the Home in Saudi Arabia.” Unpublished.
Bursztyn, Leonardo, and Robert Jensen. 2015. “How Does Peer Pressure Affect Educational Invest-
   ments?” Quarterly Journal of Economics 130 (3): 1329–67.
Cho, In-Koo, and David M. Kreps. 1987. “Signaling Games and Stable Equilibria.” Quarterly Journal
   of Economics 102 (2): 179–221.
Crawford, Vincent P., and Joel Sobel. 1982. “Strategic Information Transmission.” Econometrica 50
   (6): 1431–51.
DellaVigna, Stefano, John A. List, and Ulrike Malmendier. 2012. “Testing for Altruism and Social
   Pressure in Charitable Giving.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 127 (1): 1–56.
DellaVigna, Stefano, John A. List, Ulrike Malmendier, and Gautam Rao. 2017. “Voting to Tell Oth-
   ers.” Review of Economic Studies 84 (1): 143–81.
Elías, Julio J., Nicola Lacetera, and Mario Macis. 2019. “Paying for Kidneys? A Randomized Survey
   and Choice Experiment.” American Economic Review 109 (8): 2855–88.
Enikolopov, Ruben, Alexey Makarin, Maria Petrova, and Leonid Polishchuk. 2017. “Social Image,
   Networks, and Protest Participation.” Unpublished.
Enke, Benjamin. Forthcoming. “Moral Values and Voting.” Journal of Political Economy.
Fernández, Raquel. 2007. “Alfred Marshall Lecture: Women, Work, and Culture.” Journal of the Euro-
   pean Economic Association 5 (2–3): 305–32.
Fowler, James H., and Cindy D. Kam. 2007. “Beyond the Self: Social Identity, Altruism, and Political
   Participation.” Journal of Politics 69 (3): 813–27.
Gerber, Alan S., Donald P. Green, and Christopher W. Larimer. 2008. “Social Pressure and Voter
   Turnout: Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment.” American Political Science Review 102
   (1): 33–48.
Giani, Marco, and Pierre-Guillaume Méon. 2019. “Global Racist Contagion Following Donald
   Trump’s Election.” British Journal of Political Science: 1–8.
Giuliano, Paola. 2007. “Living Arrangements in Western Europe: Does Cultural Origin Matter?” Jour-
   nal of the European Economic Association 5 (5): 927–52.
Greif, Avner. 2006. “History Lessons: The Birth of Impersonal Exchange: The Community Responsi-
   bility System and Impartial Justice.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 20 (2): 221–36.
Hoffman, Elizabeth, Kevin McCabe, and Vernon L. Smith. 1996. “Social Distance and Other-Regard-
   ing Behavior in Dictator Games.” American Economic Review 86 (3): 653–60.
Janus, Alexander L. 2010. “The Influence of Social Desirability Pressures on Expressed Immigration
   Attitudes.” Social Science Quarterly 91 (4): 928–46.
Jensen, Robert, and Emily Oster. 2009. “The Power of TV: Cable Television and Women’s Status in
   India.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 124 (3): 1057-94
3548                            THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                        NOVEMBER 2020


Katz, Daniel, Floyd H. Allport, and Margaret Babcock Jenness. 1931. Students’ Attitudes: A Report of
   the Syracuse University Reaction Study. Syracuse, NY: Craftsman Press.
Krupka, Erin L., and Roberto A. Weber. 2013. “Identifying Social Norms Using Coordination Games:
   Why Does Dictator Game Sharing Vary?” Journal of the European Economic Association 11 (3):
   495–524.
Kuran, Timur. 1991. “The East European Revolution of 1989: Is It Surprising That We Were Sur-
   prised?” American Economic Review 81 (2): 121–25.
Kuran, Timur. 1995. Private Truths, Public Lies: The Social Consequences of Preference Falsification.
   Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Lohmann, Susanne. 1993. “A Signaling Model of Informative and Manipulative Political Action.”
   American Political Science Review 87 (2): 319–33.
Lowes, Sara, Nathan Nunn, James A. Robinson, and Jonathan L. Weigel. 2017. “The Evolution of Cul-
   ture and Institutions: Evidence from the Kuba Kingdom.” Econometrica 85 (4): 1065–91.
Madestam, Andreas, Daniel Shoag, Stan Veuger, and David Yanagizawa-Drott. 2013. “Do Political
   Protests Matter? Evidence from the Tea Party Movement.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 128
   (4): 1633–85.
Morris, Stephen. 2001. “Political Correctness.” Journal of Political Economy 109 (2): 231–65.
Müller, Karsten, and Carlo Schwarz. 2019. “From Hashtag to Hate Crime: Twitter and Anti-Minority
   Sentiment.” Unpublished.
O’Gorman, Hubert J. 1975. “Pluralistic Ignorance and White Estimates of White Support for Racial
   Segregation.” Public Opinion Quarterly 39 (3): 313–30.
Perez-Truglia, Ricardo, and Guillermo Cruces. 2017. “Partisan Interactions: Evidence from a Field
   Experiment in the United States.” Journal of Political Economy 125 (4): 1208–43.
Prendergast, Canice. 1993. “A Theory of ‘Yes Men.’” American Economic Review 83 (4): 757–70.
Richman, Barak D. 2017. “An Autopsy of Cooperation: Diamond Dealers and the Limits of Trust-
   Based Exchange.” Journal of Legal Analysis 9 (2): 247–83.
Voigtländer, Nico, and Hans-Joachim Voth. 2012. “Persecution Perpetuated: The Medieval Origins of
   Anti-Semitic Violence in Nazi Germany.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 127 (3): 1339–92.
Xiong, Heyu. Forthcoming. “Media Personality and Its Political Premium.” American Economic Jour-
   nal: Applied Economics.
This article has been cited by:

1. Tom Lane, Daniele Nosenzo, Silvia Sonderegger. 2023. Law and Norms: Empirical Evidence.
   American Economic Review 113:5, 1255-1293. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with links]
2. Milena Djourelova. 2023. Persuasion through Slanted Language: Evidence from the Media Coverage
   of Immigration. American Economic Review 113:3, 800-835. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with
   links]
3. Ingar Haaland, Christopher Roth, Johannes Wohlfart. 2023. Designing Information Provision
   Experiments. Journal of Economic Literature 61:1, 3-40. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with
   links]
4. Sergei Guriev, Elias Papaioannou. 2022. The Political Economy of Populism. Journal of Economic
   Literature 60:3, 753-832. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with links]
5. Leonardo Bursztyn, Georgy Egorov, Ingar Haaland, Aakaash Rao, Christopher Roth. 2022.
   Scapegoating during Crises. AEA Papers and Proceedings 112, 151-155. [Abstract] [View PDF article]
   [PDF with links]
