Fear of Miscoordination and the Robustness of
Cooperation in Dynamic Global Games with Exit
Sylvain Chassang ∗,†
Princeton University
July 16, 2009

Abstract
This paper develops a framework to assess how fear of miscoordination affects the
sustainability of cooperation. Building on theoretical insights from Carlsson and van
Damme (1993), it explores the effect of small amounts of private information on a class
of dynamic cooperation games with exit. Lack of common knowledge leads players to
second guess each other’s behavior and makes coordination difficult. This restricts the
range of equilibria and highlights the role of miscoordination payoffs in determining
whether cooperation is sustainable or not. The paper characterizes the range of perfect Bayesian equilibria as the players’ information becomes arbitrarily precise. Unlike
in one-shot two-by-two games, the global games information structure does not yield
equilibrium uniqueness.
keywords: cooperation, fear of miscoordination, global games, dynamic games,
exit games, local dominance solvability.
jel classification codes: C72, C73
∗

I am deeply indebted to Abhijit Banerjee, Glenn Ellison, Bob Gibbons, and Muhamet Yildiz for time,
advice, and encouragement. I am grateful to the co-editor and two anonymous referees for their considerable
help in revising the paper. I thank Daron Acemoglu, George-Marios Angeletos, Christophe Chamley, Christian Hellwig, Sergei Izmalkov, Gerard Padro i Miquel, Stephen Morris, Ichiro Obara, Alessandro Pavan,
Casey Rothschild, Satoru Takahashi, Olivier Tercieux, Nicolas Vieille and seminar participants at IESE,
Insead, IZA, Kellogg, London Business School, MIT, Paris School of Economics, Princeton, Penn State,
Stanford, Tinbergen Institute, UCLA and the 2007 Stony Brook Workshop on Global Games for many
useful conversations.
†
E-mail : chassang@princeton.edu / Land-Mail : Department of Economics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.

1

1

Introduction

This paper analyzes the impact of small amounts of incomplete information on a class of
dynamic cooperation games with exit. These exit games are infinite horizon two-player games
with a fixed discount factor. Every period, players unilaterally choose whether to stay or
exit from a joint partnership. Staying is the cooperative action in the sense that staying
increases the payoffs of one’s partner. In each period t, players’ payoffs are affected by an
i.i.d. state of the world wt about which the players obtain noisy signals. This corresponds to
a global games information structure. Because the players have different assessments of their
environment, there will be miscoordination in equilibrium.1 This fuels a process by which
the players attempt to second guess each other’s moves, potentially at the cost of reducing
the scope for cooperation.
Within the class of dynamic global games with exit, the paper’s main result is a characterization of perfect Bayesian equilibria (PBEs) and sequentially rationalizable strategies as
the players’ signals become arbitrarily precise. Specifically, the set of sequentially rationalizable strategies is bounded by extreme Markovian equilibria satisfying the following fixed
point problem: players stay if and only if it is the risk-dominant action in a one-shot game
augmented with the continuation value of playing in the same way in the future.2
In contrast with the case of static games studied by Carlsson and van Damme (1993) or
Frankel, Morris and Pauzner (2003), the global games information structure does not lead
to equilibrium uniqueness in exit games. Indeed, because the time horizon is infinite, the
players can hold multiple self-fulfilling expectations about the value of future interaction.
Despite multiplicity, the dominance solvability of static global games carries over in the
weaker form of local dominance solvability.3 Moreover, equilibria are locally unique under
the global games information structure, whereas there is a continuum of equilibria under
complete information.
From the perspective of applications, the fact that the global games perturbation does
1

Here “miscoordination” means that ex post, at least one player would like to change her play unilaterally.
See Harsanyi and Selten (1988) for a definition and an intuitive discussion of risk-dominance.
3
See Moulin (1984) or Guesnerie (2002).
2

2

not yield uniqueness does not imply that it is irrelevant. By introducing a realistic risk of
miscoordination in equilibrium, it places additional and intuitive restrictions on sustainable
levels of cooperation. Losses upon miscoordination, which play no role under complete
information, become a central determinant of the players’ ability to cooperate. In contrast
with a trembling hand or a quantal response approach, this happens even as players become
arbitrarily well-informed, and the likelihood of actual miscoordination becomes vanishingly
small. With applications in mind, the paper provides a simple criterion for cooperation to
be robust in games with approximately constant payoffs.
Because termination payoffs upon exit take a fairly general form, trigger strategies of a
repeated game naturally map into strategies of an appropriate exit game. Values upon exit
are simply equilibrium values following misbehavior. In that sense, the results of this paper
are also relevant for the study of repeated games. While the global games perturbation does
not fully resolve the problem of multiplicity, it adds realistic constraints on the sustainability
of cooperation: for cooperation to be robust to the global games perturbation, the value of
continued cooperation needs to be greater than the deviation temptation plus an additional
penalty depending on losses upon miscoordination. Because the framework is very tractable,
this provides an operational alternative to focusing on the full information Pareto frontier.
From a methodological perspective, the paper has two main contributions. The first
is to show that because of the exit assumption, the lattice theory techniques developed in
Milgrom and Roberts (1990), Vives (1990) or Echenique (2004) can be gainfully applied
to dynamic cooperation games, even under private information. The second contribution
is to show how the Abreu, Pearce, and Stacchetti (1990) approach to dynamic games can
be used to study the impact of a global games information structure in a broader set of
circumstances than one-shot coordination games. The analysis proceeds in two steps: the
first step is to recognize that one-shot action profiles in a perfect Bayesian equilibrium must
be Nash equilibria of an augmented one-shot game incorporating continuation values; the
second step is to apply global games selection results that hold uniformly over the family of
possible augmented games, and derive a fixed point equation for equilibrium continuation

3

values.
This paper contributes to the literature on the effect of private information in infinite
horizon cooperation games. Since Green and Porter (1984), Abreu, Pearce, and Stacchetti
(1986, 1990), Radner, Myerson, and Maskin (1986), or Fudenberg, Levine and Maskin (1994),
much of this literature has focused on settings in which there is imperfect but public monitoring, so that the relevant histories are always common knowledge, and coordination is never
an issue. Under private monitoring, the relevant histories are no longer common knowledge
and Mailath and Morris (2002, 2006) have highlighted the importance of miscoordination
problems in such circumstances. In particular, they show that even very small departures
from public monitoring generate higher order uncertainty that puts significant restrictions
on the set of equilibria. The present paper considers an alternative model of miscoordination
in which current payoffs rather than past actions are the source of private information. This
framework delivers tractable results that can be readily used in applied work investigating
the impact of miscoordination fear on cooperation.
This paper also fits in the growing literature on dynamic global games. Much of this
literature, however, avoids intertemporal incentives. Levin (2001) studies a global game
with overlapping generations. Chamley (1999), Morris and Shin (1999), and Angeletos,
Hellwig and Pavan (2006) consider various models of dynamic regime change but shut down
dynamic incentives and focus on the endogenous information dynamics that result from
agents observing others’ actions and new signals of the state of the world. In this sense,
these models are models of dynamic herds rather than models of repeated interaction. In
two papers that do not rely on private noisy signals as the source of miscoordination, but
carry a very similar intuition, Burdzy, Frankel, and Pauzner (2001), and Frankel and Pauzner
(2000) obtain uniqueness of equilibrium for a model in which players’ actions have inertia and
fundamentals follow a random walk. This uniqueness result hinges strongly on the random
walk assumption and does not rule out multiplicity in settings where fundamentals follow
different processes. Closer to the topic of this paper are Giannitsarou and Toxvaerd (2007)
and Ordoñez (2008), both of which extend results from Frankel, Morris, and Pauzner (2003)

4

and prove an equilibrium uniqueness result for a family of dynamic, finite horizon, recursively
supermodular, global games. From the perspective of the present paper, which is concerned
with infinite horizon games, their uniqueness result is akin to equilibrium uniqueness in a
finitely-repeated dominance-solvable game. Finally, Chassang and Takahashi (2009) explore
the more abstract question of robustness to incomplete information in the context of repeated
games. Rather than characterizing equilibria of a game with a specific incomplete information
structure of interest, they use the approach of Kajii and Morris (1997) and explore the
robustness of equilibria to all small enough incomplete information perturbations.
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the setup. Section 3 delineates the
mechanics of the paper in the context of a simple example. Section 4 extends the analysis
to more general exit games and establishes the main selection results. Section 5 discusses
potential applications and alternative models of miscoordination. Proofs are contained in
Appendix A, unless mentioned otherwise. Appendix B, available online, contains additional
results.

2

Framework

2.1

Exit games

Consider an infinite-horizon game with discrete time t ∈ N and two players i ∈ {1, 2} who
share the same discount factor β ∈ (0, 1). In every period, the two players simultaneously
choose an action from A = {Stay, Exit}. Payoffs are indexed by a state of the world wt ∈ R.
Given a state of the world wt , player i faces flow payoffs,

S

S

E

g i (wt )

i
(wt ) , where i is the row player.
W12

i
i
E W21
(wt )
(wt ) W22

The sequence of states of the world {wt }t∈N is an i.i.d. sequence of real numbers drawn
from a distribution with density f , c.d.f. F , and convex support. All payoffs functions,
5

i
i
i
g i , W12
, W21
, W22
are continuous in wt . Whenever a player chooses to exit, the game ends

and players get continuation values equal to zero. This is without loss of generality since
i
i
i
termination payoffs can be included in the flow-payoffs upon exit W12
, W21
and W22
.

At time t, the state of the world wt is unknown, but each player gets a signal xi,t of the
form
xi,t = wt + σεi,t
where σ ≥ 0 and {εi,t }i∈{1,2} , t∈N is an i.i.d. sequence of independent random variables taking
values in the interval [−1, 1]. For simplicity wt is ex-post observable.
For all σ ≥ 0, let Γσ denote this dynamic game with imperfect information. The paper
is concerned with equilibria of Γσ when the noise level σ is strictly positive but arbitrarily
small. According to this notation, Γ0 denotes the complete information exit game in which
the state wt is publicly observable. Additional assumptions will be introduced in Section 4.

2.2

Solution concepts

Because of the exit structure, at any decision point it must be that players have always
chosen to stay in the past. Hence, a history hi,t is simply characterized by a sequence of past
and current signals, and past outcomes: hi,t ≡ {xi,1 , . . . , xi,t ; w1 , . . . , wt−1 }. Let H denote
the set of all such sequences. A pure strategy is a mapping s : H 7→ {S, E}. Denote by Ω the
set of pure strategies. For any set of strategies S ⊂ Ω, let ∆(S) denote the set of probability
distributions over S that have a countable support. The two main solution concepts we will
be using are perfect Bayesian equilibrium and sequential rationalizability. To define these
concepts formally, it is convenient to denote by h0i,t ≡ {xi,1 , . . . , xi,t−1 ; w1 , . . . , wt−1 } the
histories before players receive period t’s signal but after actions of period t − 1 have been
taken. A strategy s−i of player −i, conditional on the history h0−i,t having been observed,
will be denoted by s−i|h0−i,t . A conditional strategy s−i|h0−i,t of player −i, along with player
i’s conditional belief µ|h0i,t over h0−i,t , induce a mixed strategy of player −i, denoted by
(s−i|h0−i,t , µ|h0i,t ). Player i’s sequential best-response correspondence, denoted by BRi,σ , is
defined as follows.
6

Definition 1 (sequential best-response) ∀ s−i ∈ ∆(Ω), si ∈ BRi,σ (s−i ) if and only if
there exists a set of beliefs µ for player i such that:
(i) At any history h0i,t , the conditional strategy si|h0i,t is a best-reply of player i to
the mixed strategy (s−i|h0−i,t , µ|h0i,t );
(ii) Whenever a history h0i,t is attainable given s−i , µ|hi,t−1 and player i’s action
at hi,t−1 , then the belief µ|h0i,t over h0−i,t is obtained from µ|hi,t−1 by Bayesian
updating;
(iii) Beliefs µ|hi,t are obtained from µ|h0i,t by Bayesian updating.
Given this definition of sequential best-response, a strategy si of player i is associated
with a perfect Bayesian equilibrium of Γσ if and only if si ∈ BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (si ). Sequential
rationalizability is defined as follows.
Definition 2 (sequential rationalizability) A strategy si belongs to the set of sequentially rationalizable strategies of player i if and only if
si ∈

\

∆
∆
(BRi,σ
◦ BR−i,σ
)n (Ω),

∆
where BRi,σ
≡ BRi,σ ◦ ∆.

n∈N

Given strategies si , s−i and beliefs upon unattainable histories, let Vi (hi,t ) denote the value
player i expects from playing the game at history hi,t . Pairs of strategies and pairs of value
functions will respectively be denoted by s ≡ (si , s−i ) and V ≡ (Vi , V−i ).

3

An example

This section focuses on a simple game where two partners repeatedly choose to keep putting
effort in their joint project or quit. While this example is fairly restrictive (besides the
assumption that state wt is i.i.d., as maintained throughout, payoffs are symmetric and satisfy
strong complementarity properties), it highlights in detail the main steps of the analysis and

7

the technical difficulties that must be resolved to extend the global games framework to an
infinite horizon.

3.1

Payoffs

Consider the exit game with symmetric flow payoffs given by,

S

S

E

wt

wt − c + βVE

E b + VE

VE

where payoffs are given for the row player only, β is the discount factor, and c > b ≥ 0.
This game can be thought of as a stylized partnership game in which players repeatedly
choose to keep putting effort in their partnership or quit. Value VE is the discounted present
value of the players’ constant outside option.4 The state wt represents the expected returns
from putting effort in the partnership at time t. Parameter c represents the losses from
staying in the partnership when the other player walks out; parameter b (which can be set
to 0) represents a potential benefit from cheating on a cooperating partner. When player i
exits she obtains her outside option immediately. When player i stays but her partner exits,
she obtains her outside option only in the next period.
States of the world wt are drawn from a distribution with density f and support R.
It is assumed that E|wt | < ∞ and VE > 0. As in Section 2.1, the complete information
version of this game is denoted by Γ0 , while Γσ denotes the game with i.i.d. global games
1
perturbations. Define M ≡ 1−β
E max(wt , VE + b). Any feasible value for playing game Γσ is

strictly lower than M .

3.2

The complete information case

As a benchmark, this section studies the complete information case, where σ = 0. Note
that the option to exit allows player i to guarantee herself a minimum value Vi > VE .
4

1
For instance, VE = 1−β
wE where wE is the flow payoff generated by the players’ outside option.

8

Furthermore, independently of what she does, player i is always better off when player −i
stays. For this reason, staying will be interpreted as the cooperative action in what follows.
Finally, whenever one player exits while the other stays, one player would always prefer to
change her decision ex post. Circumstances in which one player stays while the other exits
are referred to as miscoordination.
Under complete information, the set of subgame perfect equilibria admits a least cooperative equilibrium and a most cooperative equilibrium, both of which take a simple thresholdform. In the least cooperative equilibrium, players exit if and only if wt ≤ (1 − β)VE + c.
Note that when wt > (1 − β)VE + c, it is dominant for players to stay. The most cooperative
equilibrium is characterized by a threshold w such that players stay if and only if wt ≥ w.
This cooperation threshold w is the lowest state for which staying can be an equilibrium
action. It is associated with the greatest equilibrium continuation value V and characterized
by the following equations:
(1)

w + βV

(2)

V

= b + VE
¤
£
= E (wt + βV )1wt >w + F (w)VE ,

1
where equation (2) is equivalent to V = 1−β(1−F
[E(wt 1wt >w ) + F (w)VE ].
(w))

Note that parameter c does not enter equations (1) or (2). This means that under
complete information the Pareto efficient equilibrium is entirely unaffected by losses upon
miscoordination. In contrast, Section 3.3 shows that once private information is introduced,
losses upon miscoordination become critical determinants of cooperation.
Under complete information, the partnership game generically admits a continuum of
equilibria. Whenever x is such that
x < (1 − β)VE + c

and

b + VE < x + βV (x),

1
where V (x) = 1−β(1−F
[E(wt 1wt >x ) + F (x)VE ], then the pair of threshold-form strategies
(x))

such that players stay whenever wt ≥ x and exit whenever wt < x is an equilibrium. Thresh9

old w is the lowest such value of x. When w is not a local maximum of x + βV (x), then
there exists η > 0 such that all x ∈ [w, w + η] are equilibrium thresholds.5

3.3

The incomplete information case

When players do not observe the state of the world wt but instead observe a noisy private
signal xi,t = wt + σεi,t , miscoordination is possible in equilibrium. Players attempt to second
guess each other’s behavior and assess the miscoordination risk associated with each action.
In equilibrium, this risk is particularly high around states of the world at which the players
change their behavior. This pushes players towards cautiousness, and reduces the scope for
cooperation. The analysis of the dynamic global game Γσ proceeds in two steps:
1. The first step shows that for a natural order over strategies the set of rationalizable
strategies is bounded by extreme Markovian equilibria. This result relies on the exit
game structure and exploits a partial form of monotone best-reply that is sufficient to
apply the methods of Milgrom and Roberts (1990) and Vives (1990).
2. The second step characterizes such Markovian equilibria as noise σ goes to 0. Using
the dynamic programming approach of Abreu, Pearce and Stacchetti (1990), equilibria
of Γσ can be analyzed by studying families of one-shot global games augmented with
appropriate continuation values. Along with selection results that hold uniformly over
families of static global games, this yields a simple asymptotic characterization of
Markovian equilibria.
3.3.1

Monotone best-response and extreme equilibria

The first step of the analysis exploits the exit game structure along with payoff complementarities to show that game Γσ satisfies a partial form of monotone best-response.
5

For instance, in the game where f ∼ N (3, 1), VE = 5, c = 3, b = 1 and β = 0.7, then w = −1 and any
x ∈ [−1, 4.5] is an equilibrium threshold.

10

Definition 3 The partial order ¹ on pure strategies is defined by
s0 ¹ s ⇐⇒ {∀h ∈ H, s0 (h) = Stay ⇒ s(h) = Stay} .
In words, a strategy s is greater than s0 with respect to ¹ if and only if players stay more
under strategy s.
Consider a strategy s−i of player −i and player i’s best-reply, si ∈ BRi,σ (s−i ). Pick a
history hi,t and denote by Vi the continuation value player i expects at this history. Note
that Vi > VE , since for states wt large enough, players will strictly prefer staying to taking
the outside option VE . Player i’s expected payoffs, ΠiS (Vi ) and ΠiE , from staying and exiting
are as follows:
ΠiS (Vi )
ΠiE

h
i
= E (wt + βVi )1s−i (h−i,t )=S + (wt − c + βVE )1s−i (h−i,t )=E |hi,t , s−i
h
i
= E (b + VE )1s−i (h−i,t )=S + VE 1s−i (h−i,t )=E |hi,t , s−i .

Note that player i’s beliefs about history h−i,t depend both on history hi,t and player −i’s
strategy, s−i . Player i chooses to stay at history hi,t if and only if ΠiS (Vi ) ≥ ΠiE . We are
interested in how i’s best-reply changes when s−i increases. An increase in s−i affects player
i’s choice between staying and exiting through three distinct channels:
• increasing s−i changes player i’s continuation value Vi ;
• increasing s−i changes player i’s beliefs about the history h−i,t observed by player −i;
• keeping beliefs about h−i,t and continuation values constant, increasing s−i affects
player i’s static incentives to stay.
It will be shown that the effects of increasing s−i on continuation values and static
incentives both contribute towards making player i stay more as well. The effect on beliefs,
however, is ambiguous. For this reason, the analysis initially focuses on Markovian strategies,
for which this ambiguous effect on beliefs cancels out.

11

Definition 4 (Markovian strategies) For all i ∈ {1, 2}, a strategy si is said to be Markovian if si (hi,t ) depends only on player i’s current signal, xi,t .
When player −i’s strategy is Markovian, then in period t the action taken by player −i
depends only on her current signal x−i,t , and not on her past history h0−i,t . Furthermore,
while player i’s beliefs about h0−i,t depend on player −i’s strategy s−i , player i’s beliefs about
x−i,t depend only on her own signal xi,t . Hence, when s−i is Markovian, player i’s expected
payoffs given her actions need only be conditioned on her own history, and not on player
−i’s strategy. Given a Markovian strategy s−i , the following facts hold.
Fact 1 (static complementarity) Keeping Vi constant, ΠiS (Vi ) − ΠiE is increasing in s−i .
The proof is straightforward given that Vi > VE , c > b and
(3)

£
¤
ΠiS (Vi ) − ΠiE = E (β(Vi − VE ) + c − b)1s−i =S + wt − c − (1 − β)VE |hi,t .

This corresponds to the fact that for any Vi > VE , the one-shot game

S

S

E

wt + βVi

wt − c + βVE

E b + VE

VE

is supermodular and, in particular, exhibits increasing differences in actions.
Fact 2 (dynamic complementarity)
(i) Keeping Vi fixed, both ΠiS (Vi ) and ΠiE are increasing in s−i .
(ii) Keeping s−i fixed, ΠiS (Vi ) − ΠiE is increasing in Vi .
Indeed, we have that
¤
£
ΠiS (Vi ) = E (c + β(Vi − VE ))1s−i =S + wt − c + βVE |hi,t
¤
£
ΠiE = E b1s−i =S + VE |hi,t ,
12

which implies Fact 2 (i) given that Vi > VE . Fact 2 (ii) follows directly from equation (3).
Fact 2 (i) relies on the fact that when player −i stays more, player i’s continuation value
increases. This corresponds to staying being the cooperative action. Fact 2 (ii) is specific
to the exit-game structure. In a standard repeated game, where players might deviate to
an inferior equilibrium, but cannot simply end the game, increasing all future continuation
values does not increase players’ incentives to cooperate in the current period.
Together, Facts 1 and 2 are sufficient to establish that game Γσ exhibits monotone bestresponse with respect to Markovian strategies: if s−i is Markovian and increases, then the
best-reply BRi,σ (s−i ) shifts up as well. From Fact 1, it follows that, keeping continuation
values constant, when strategy s−i increases, player i’s best-reply will increase as well. From
Fact 2, it follows that as s−i increases, player i’s continuation value Vi increases, which
reinforces player i’s incentives to stay. Monotone best-response for Markovian strategies can
be strengthened to show that whenever player −i moves from a strategy s−i to ŝ−i , monotone
best-reply will hold as long as one of these strategies is Markovian (see Proposition 1 for a
formal statement). Monotone best-reply does not generally hold when both strategies are
non-Markovian.
This partial form of monotone best-reply is sufficient to replicate the construction of
Milgrom and Roberts (1990) or Vives (1990), and show that the set of all sequentially
rationalizable strategies is bounded by a highest and a lowest Markovian equilibrium. Indeed,
“staying always” and “exiting always” are Markovian strategies that clearly bound the set
of all possible strategies. By iteratively applying the best-reply mapping, one can bracket
the set of sequentially rationalizable strategies between increasing and decreasing sequences
H
H
of Markovian strategies that converge to extreme Markovian equilibria. Let sH
σ = (si,σ , s−i,σ )

and sLσ = (sLi,σ , sL−i,σ ) denote the extreme Markovian equilibria of game Γσ . Note that since
the game is symmetric, these extreme Markovian equilibria must be symmetric. Let us
L
denote by VσH (resp. VσL ) the value associated with equilibrium sH
σ (resp. sσ ). Values

VσH and VσL are respectively the highest and the lowest possible equilibrium values of the
exit game Γσ . Since extreme equilibria sLσ and sH
σ are symmetric, we focus on symmetric

13

Markovian equilibria for the rest of this section. Appendix B.1 shows that in fact, when
payoffs are symmetric, all Markovian equilibria must be symmetric for σ small enough.
3.3.2

Dynamic selection

Since the set of sequentially rationalizable strategies is bounded by extreme, symmetric
Markovian equilibria, it is sufficient to focus on symmetric Markovian equilibria to characterize the range of PBEs of Γσ . The analysis follows the dynamic programming approach of
Abreu, Pearce and Stacchetti (1990). Given a symmetric Markovian equilibrium sσ , let us
denote by Vσ the value of playing that equilibrium. In any period t, sσ induces a one-shot
action profile that is a Nash equilibrium of the static coordination game

S

S

E

wt + βVσ

wt − c + βVE

E b + VE

VE

where players observe a noisy signal xi,t = wt + σεi,t . Let us denote by Ψσ (Vσ ) this oneshot incomplete information game. Game Ψσ (Vσ ) is essentially a global game that fits into
the framework of Carlsson and van Damme (1993). The only difference is that here, both
the information structure and the payoffs upon continuation depend on noise parameter
σ. Carlsson and van Damme (1993)’s selection results hold when the signal xi,t becomes
arbitrarily precise, but keeping fixed the payoff structure. The following uniform selection
result resolves this technical difficulty (Fact 3 is a corollary of Lemma A.1 given in Appendix
A).6
Fact 3 (uniform selection) There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), and all V ∈
[VE , M ], the one-shot incomplete information game Ψσ (V ) has a unique Nash equilibrium.
This Nash equilibrium is characterized by a threshold x∗σ (V ) such that for all i ∈ {1, 2},
6

Steiner (2008) uses a similar result in the context of a static coordination game in which many workers are
assigned to many sectors and must all decide whether to stay or be assigned to an other sector. Steiner (2008)
shows that the analysis of the overall matching game can be reduced to the analysis of many 2×2 coordination
games with an endogenous value for exit. The overall game admits a unique symmetric equilibrium, which
is also the only equilibrium when the number of sectors grows large.

14

player i stays if and only if xi,t ≥ x∗σ (V ). Furthermore as σ goes to 0, x∗σ (V ) converges
uniformly over [VE , M ] to
xRD (V ) = (1 − β)VE +

b+c
VE − V
+β
,
2
2

the risk-dominance threshold of the one-shot augmented game Ψ0 (V ).
Consider σ > 0 small, so that Fact 3 holds. Given a value V ∈ [VE , M ], let φσ (V ) be the
value of playing the one-shot game Ψσ (V ) according to its unique equilibrium. We have
h
φσ (V ) = E (wt + βV )1 xi,t >x∗σ (V ) + VE 1 xi,t <x∗σ (V )
x−i,t >x∗σ (V )

x−i,t <x∗σ (V )

i
+(b + VE )1 xi,t <x∗σ (V ) + (wt − c + βVE )1 xi,t >x∗σ (V ) .
x−i,t >x∗σ (V )

x−i,t <x∗σ (V )

By stationarity, the value Vσ of playing Markovian equilibrium sσ is also the value of playing
the one-shot game Ψσ (Vσ ) according to its unique equilibrium. Hence value Vσ must satisfy
the fixed point equation, Vσ = φσ (Vσ ). Conversely, any fixed point Vσ of φσ is associated
with a Markovian equilibrium of Γσ such that players stay and exit according to threshold
x∗σ (Vσ ). Values VσH and VσL are the greatest and smallest fixed points of φσ .
As σ goes to 0, the threshold x∗σ (V ) converges uniformly to xRD (V ). Furthermore, as
σ goes to 0, the likelihood that xi,t > x∗σ (V ) while x−i,t < x∗σ (V ) goes to 0 uniformly over
V ∈ [VE , M ]. This implies that the value mapping φσ converges uniformly to the mapping
Φ defined by
(4)

£
¤
Φ(V ) ≡ E (wt + βV )1wt >xRD (V ) + VE 1wt <xRD (V ) .
The limiting map Φ and its fixed points are easy to compute, and provide an accurate

characterization of the equilibria of the dynamic exit game Γσ for the case of σ small.
Indeed, the fixed points of φσ generically converge to the fixed points of Φ: the fact that
φσ converges uniformly to Φ implies that any converging sequence of fixed points (Vσ )σ>0
of φσ must converge to a fixed point V of Φ; conversely, any fixed point V of Φ such that
15

Φ0 (V ) 6= 1 is the limit of some sequence (Vσ )σ>0 of fixed points of φσ .7 Let V L and V H
denote the extreme fixed points of Φ. The associated thresholds xRD (V H ) and xRD (V L )
characterize the highest and lowest levels of cooperation that can be sustained in game Γσ
as σ goes to 0. Since the set of rationalizable strategies is bounded by Markovian equilibria,

12

12

11

11

10

10

Mapping Φ(V)

Mapping Φ(V)

whenever Φ has a unique fixed point, game Γσ has an asymptotically unique equilibrium.

9
8
7
6

8
7
6

5
4
4

9

5

Vmin=5.3
5

6

Vmax=9.9
7

8

9

10

11

4
4

12

Continuation value V

Vmin=5.1
5

6

V

=9.8

10

11

max

7

8

9

12

Continuation value V

(a) Unique fixed point: η = 1.

(b) Multiple fixed points: η = 0.2.

Figure 1: Equilibria of the partnership game depending on η. VE = 5, β = 0.7, µ = 3, c = 3
and b = 1. Vmin and Vmax are the extreme equilibrium values under complete information.
Note that the global games perturbation does not necessarily lead to uniqueness in infinite
horizon games. Figure 1 plots Φ when the state wt is drawn from a Gaussian distribution
N (µ, η 2 ) for different values of η. While the range of equilibria under complete information
is roughly the same for the values of η considered, the impact of a global games information
structure on the set of equilibria depends significantly on the shape of distribution f . In
particular, in the example of Figure 1, Φ admits multiple fixed points when the distribution
f has low variance, and a unique fixed point when f has high variance (Appendix B.3
provides a sufficient condition for unique selection along similar lines). Although the unique
selection result of Carlsson and van Damme (1993) applies to each static game augmented
with continuation values, this augmented game, and which equilibrium is risk-dominant,
7

More generally, this property holds as long as Φ crosses strictly through the 45o line. See Appendix A.3
for details.

16

depends on the expectations of agents over future play. It follows that multiple levels of
cooperation may be sustainable.
While the exit game Γσ can admit multiple asymptotic Markovian equilibria, there are
generically finitely many of them. This contrasts with the complete information case in
which there is a continuum of equilibria. Section 4.4 also highlights that under the global
games perturbation, the set of equilibria is very structured. In particular, the stability and
basin of attraction of equilibria with respect to iterated best-reply is essentially characterized
by the stability and basin of attraction of fixed points of Φ. This provides additional insights
on which equilibria may or may not be selected.
In the context of this paper, the global games perturbation is perhaps best understood as
a way to model fear of miscoordination. Because players have different assessments of their
environment, one partner may choose to exit while the other stays, and miscoordination
can occur in equilibrium.8 More importantly, because miscoordination is driven by noise
in the information structure, the likelihood of miscoordination depends both on the current
state and on what strategies players are using. Miscoordination is most likely in states
close to the critical threshold at which players change their behavior. For this reason, in
equilibrium, losses upon miscoordination are an important determinant of the sustainability
of cooperation, even though players are well informed and the ex ante likelihood of actual
miscoordination is small. Fear of miscoordination, rather than miscoordination itself, affects
the players’ ability to cooperate.
Taking into account fear of miscoordination can affect comparative statics significantly.
Equation (4) determines how V H and xRD (V H ) vary with parameters of interest such as b
and c. We have that
(5)
(6)

¢
¡
∂xRD
∂Φ(V )
= −
f (xRD (V )) xRD (V ) + βV − VE
∂b
∂b
¢
¡
∂xRD
∂Φ(V )
= −
f (xRD (V )) xRD (V ) + βV − VE .
∂c
∂c

8

Note that because player i is always better off when player −i chooses to stay, it is difficult for players
to exchange credible messages. For this reason the paper does not consider the possibility of cheap talk. See
Baliga and Morris (2002) for a detailed discussion of this question.

17

RD

Since ∂x∂b

RD

> 0, ∂x∂c > 0, and xRD (V ) + βV > VE + b by definition of xRD (V ), it follows

that Φ is decreasing in both b and c over the range [VE , M ]. Since Φ has finite extreme fixed
points, downward shifts of Φ also shift its extreme fixed points downwards. This implies
that V H is strictly decreasing in c and b. It follows that xRD (V H ) is strictly increasing in c
RD

RD

and b. Furthermore, since ∂x∂c = ∂x∂b , it follows from (5) and (6) that changes in deviation
temptation b or losses upon miscoordination c have the same impact on the feasible amount
of cooperation. This contrasts with the full-information environment where only b affects
the sustainability of cooperation.

4

General analysis

This section completes and extends the analysis of Section 3. The framework includes games
with asymmetric payoffs and satisfying a weak form of strategic complementarity. Section 4.1
describes the assumptions under which the analysis of Section 3 extends. Section 4.2 shows
that under appropriate assumptions, exit games satisfy a partial form of monotone bestresponse and are bounded by extreme Markovian equilibria. Sections 4.3 uses the dynamic
programming approach of Abreu, Pearce and Stacchetti (1990) along with global games
selection results to derive a simple fixed point equation characterizing Markovian equilibria.
Section 4.4 explores the question of dominance solvability and characterizes the stability and
basins of attraction of Markovian equilibria with respect to iterated best-reply.

4.1

Assumptions

The assumptions that follow serve different purposes. Assumption 1 ensures that the values
players can obtain are bounded. Assumptions 2, 3 and 4 ensure that the conditions of
Carlsson and van Damme hold for one-shot games augmented with the players’ possible
continuation values. Assumptions 4 and 5 generate strategic complementarities both within

18

and across time periods. For convenience, recall the general form of flow payoffs,

S

S

E

g i (wt )

i
W12
(wt ) , where i is the row player.

i
i
E W21
(wt ) W22
(wt )

Assumption 1 (boundedness) There exists a function D : R → R+ , such that for all
R +∞
w ∈ R, D(w) ≥ maxi,k,l∈{1,2} {|g i (w)|, |Wkli (w)|}, and −∞ D(w)f (w)dw < +∞.
This assumption is fairly unrestrictive but still necessary given that in many natural examples
wt has unbounded support. Let mi and Mi respectively denote the min-max and maximum
values of player i in the complete information game Γ0 . The maximum value Mi will be used
in Assumption 2 while the min-max value mi appears in Assumptions 4 and 5.
Assumption 2 (dominance) There exist real numbers w < w, in the support of f , such
that for all i ∈ {1, 2},
i
g i (w) + βMi − W21
(w) < 0 and
i
i
and W12
(w) − W22
(w) > 0 and

i
i
W12
(w) − W22
(w) < 0 (Exit dominant)

i
g i (w) + βmi − W21
(w) > 0

(Staying dominant).

Assumption 3 (increasing differences in the state of the world) For all i ∈ {1, 2},
i
i
i
g i (wt ) − W21
(wt ) and W12
(wt ) − W22
(wt ) are strictly increasing over wt ∈ [w, w], with a slope

greater than some real number r > 0.
Definition 5 For any functions Vi , V−i : R → R, let G(Vi , V−i , wt ) denote the complete
information one-shot game9
S
S

E

i
(wt )
g i (wt ) + βVi (wt ) W12
i
(wt )
W22

i
(wt )
E W21
9

In what follows value functions will frequently take a unique value. In those cases we will identify the
function and the value it takes.

19

where i is the row player. Let Ψσ (Vi , V−i ) denote the corresponding one-shot global game in
which players observe signals xi,t = wt + σεi,t .
Assumption 4 (coordination) For all states of the world wt , the one-shot game G(mi , m−i , wt )
has a pure strategy Nash equilibrium and all pure equilibria belong to {(S, S), (E, E)}.
Recall that mi is player i’s min-max value in the full information game Γ0 . When Assumptions 2 and 3 hold, Assumption 4 is equivalent to the fact that for all i ∈ {1, 2}, if the state
i
i
i
wi is such that W12
(wi ) − W22
(wi ) = 0, then we have that g i (wi ) + βmi − W21
(wi ) > 0 and
−i
g −i (wi ) + βm−i − W21
(wi ) > 0. In words, whenever the state is high enough for player i

to stay although player −i exits, then player −i’s best-reply under complete information
is to stay as well. This can be seen as a single-crossing property of the kind identified by
Milgrom and Shannon (1994). It ensures that augmented one-shot games Ψσ (V) exhibit
strategic complementarities.10 It is strictly weaker than assuming that such one-shot games
are supermodular. It is easy to check that Assumption 4 holds for the partnership game
since mi > VE and c > b.
Together Assumptions 2, 3 and 4 correspond to Carlsson and van Damme’s assumption
that states of the world are connected to dominance regions by a path that is entirely
contained in the risk-dominance region of one of the equilibria. Assumption 4 ensures that
at any state of the world w and for any pair of individually rational continuation values V,
either (S, S) or (E, E) is the risk-dominant equilibrium of G(V, w). Assumption 3 implies
that there exists a risk-dominant threshold xRD (V) such that (S, S) is risk-dominant in
G(V, w) if and only if w ≥ xRD (V).
Assumption 5 (staying benefits one’s partner) For all players i ∈ {1, 2} and all states
i
i
i
(w) ≥ 0.
(w) − W22
(w) ≥ 0 and W21
of the world w ∈ [w, w], g i (w) + βmi − W12
10

Note that if Assumption 4 is satisfied, then for any function V(wt ) = (Vi , V−i ) taking values in [mi , +∞)×
[m−i , +∞), the game G(V, wt ) also has a pure strategy equilibrium, and its pure equilibria also belong to
{(S, S), (E, E)}. Indeed, whether (E, E) is an equilibrium or not does not depend on the value of (Vi , V−i ).
Furthermore, if (S, S) is an equilibrium when V = (mi , m−i ), then it is also an equilibrium when the
continuation values of player i and −i are greater than mi and m−i .

20

Recall that [w, w] corresponds to states of the world where there need not be a dominant
action. Assumption 5 means that under full information, over the range [w, w], and independently of her own action, player i is weakly better off whenever player −i stays.
This assumption is necessary to obtain dynamic complementarities. If it did not hold,
staying more in the future would reduce current continuation values and lead players to stay
less in the current period. In the partnership game example, this assumption corresponds to
Fact 2 (i) of Section 3.3. This assumption rules out exit games in which “exiting is good”,
such as wars of attrition or bargaining games, and restricts attention to games where staying
is indeed a cooperative action.

4.2

Monotone best-response and extreme equilibria

This section exploits the exit structure along with Assumptions 4 and 5 to show that for noise
σ small, game Γσ exhibits a partial form of monotone best-response. In turn this suffices
to show the existence of extreme Markovian equilibria that bound the set of sequentially
rationalizable strategies. The definitions of partial order ¹ and Markovian strategies given
in Section 3 still apply here.
Assumption 4 implies that given continuation values V, the one-shot augmented game
Ψσ (V) exhibits monotone best-response for σ small enough.11 Assumption 5, that staying
benefits one’s partner, implies that strategic complementarities hold across periods as well.
This suffices to show a partial form of monotone best-response and the existence of extreme
Markovian strategies.
Consider a strategy s−i of player −i and a history hi,t observed by player i. From the
perspective of player i, at history hi,t , the one-period action profile s−i (x−i,t , h0−i,t ) of player
−i can be represented as a mapping from player −i’s current signal x−i,t to lotteries over
{stay, exit}. Let us denote by a−i|hi,t : R → ∆{stay, exit} this one-shot action profile. The
11

The restriction on noise σ comes from the fact Assumption 4 only implies a single-crossing property à la
Milgrom and Shannon (1994). Single-crossing is not a sufficient condition for monotone best-response under
incomplete information.

21

order ¹ on dynamic strategies extends to one-shot action profiles as follows:
a0 ¹ a ⇐⇒ {a.s. ∀x ∈ R, P rob[a0 (x) = Stay] ≤ P rob[a(x) = Stay]} .
Note that if s−i is Markovian, then s−i (x−i,t , h0−i,t ) does not depend on h0−i,t , and a−i|hi,t
is effectively a mapping from R to {stay, exit}. For any mapping Vi that maps player
i’s current signal, xi,t ∈ R, to a continuation value Vi (xi,t ), and any mapping a−i : R →
∆{stay, exit}, one can define BRi,σ (a−i , Vi ), as the one-shot best-response correspondence
of player i when she expects a continuation value Vi and player −i uses action profile a−i .
The next lemma establishes that the best-reply mappings for one-shot action profiles and for
dynamic strategies admit highest and lowest elements: a basic property necessary to apply
the tools of lattice theory.
Lemma 1 For any σ > 0, we have that
(i) For any one-shot action profile a−i and any value function Vi , BRi,σ (a−i , Vi )
admits a lowest and a highest element with respect to ¹. These are respectively
L
H
denoted BRi,σ
(a−i , Vi ) and BRi,σ
(a−i , Vi );

(ii) Whenever a strategy s−i of Γσ is Markovian, BRi,σ (s−i ) admits a lowest and
a highest element with respect to ¹. These strategies are Markovian and are
L
H
respectively denoted BRi,σ
(s−i ) and BRi,σ
(s−i ).

The next lemma establishes that the one-shot best-reply mapping satisfies some monotonicity properties with respect to ¹.
Lemma 2 There exist σ > 0 and ν > 0 such that
(i) For all constant value functions Vi ∈ [mi − ν, Mi + ν], and all σ ∈ (0, σ),
L
H
(a−i , Vi ) are increasing in a−i with respect to ¹;
(a−i , Vi ) and BRi,σ
BRi,σ

(ii) If V and V 0 are continuation values functions such that for all hi,t ∈ H,
L
H
H
(a−i , V ) ¹
(a−i , V 0 ) and BRi,σ
(a−i , V ) ¹ BRi,σ
V (hi,t ) ≤ V 0 (hi,t ), then for any a−i , BRi,σ
L
(a−i , V 0 ).
BRi,σ

22

Point (i) of Lemma 2 is a consequence of Assumption 4. Point (ii) relies on the exit structure:
a general increase in future values increases the incentives to stay. Along with Assumption
5, which ensures that strategic complementarities hold across time periods, this allows us to
show that Γσ exhibits monotone best-response as long as there is a Markovian strategy on
one side of the inequality.
Proposition 1 (partial monotone best response) There exists σ such that for all σ ∈
(0, σ), whenever s−i is a Markovian strategy, then, for all strategies s0−i ,
ª
©
H
(s−i )
s0−i ¹ s−i ⇒ ∀s00 ∈ BRi,σ (s0−i ), s00 ¹ BRi,σ
ª
©
L
(s−i ) ¹ s00 .
and s−i ¹ s0−i ⇒ ∀s00 ∈ BRi,σ (s0−i ), BRi,σ
Proof:

Let us show the first implication. Consider a Markovian strategy s−i and any

strategy s0−i such that s0−i ¹ s−i . Define Vi and Vi0 the continuation value functions respectively associated with player i’s best-response to s−i and s0−i . Since s−i is Markovian, Vi is
a constant function. Assumption 5, that staying benefits one’s partner, implies that at all
histories hi,t , Vi0 (hi,t ) ≤ Vi (hi,t ). By point (ii) of Lemma 2, we have that
(7)

H
H
BRi,σ
(a0−i , Vi0 (hi,t )) ¹ BRi,σ
(a0−i , Vi (hi,t )).

Since Vi (hi,t ) is constant we can apply point (i) of Lemma 2. For this, we need to show that
a0−i|hi,t ¹ a−i|hi,t . This follows from s−i being Markovian and the fact that s0−i ¹ s−i . Indeed,
whenever P rob{a0−i|hi,t = stay} > 0, we must have P rob{a−i|hi,t = stay} = 1. Lemma 2
yields that
(8)

H
H
BRi,σ
(a0−i , Vi (hi,t )) ¹ BRi,σ
(a−i , Vi (hi,t )).

Combining equations (7) and (8) we obtain that indeed, for all s00 ∈ BRi,σ (s0−i ), s00 ¹
H
(s−i ). An identical proof holds for the other inequality.
BRi,σ

¥

As will be highlighted below, Proposition 1 is the key step to prove the existence of extreme
23

Markovian equilibria. Furthermore, these extreme equilibria have a simple structure. A
strategy si is said to take a threshold-form if there exists a value x such that for all histories
hi,t , si (hi,t ) = S if and only if xi,t ≥ x. A strategy of threshold x will be denoted sx . The
following lemma shows that the best-reply to a threshold-form strategy is unique, and is a
threshold-form strategy.12
Lemma 3 There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and any x ∈ R, there exists x0 ∈ R
such that BRi,σ (sx ) = {sx0 }. Moreover, x0 is continuous in x.
Together, Proposition 1 and Lemma 3 imply the following theorem.
Theorem 1 (extreme strategies) There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), sequentially rationalizable strategies of Γσ are bounded by a highest and lowest Markovian Nash
H
H
L
L
L
equilibria, respectively denoted by sH
σ = (si,σ , s−i,σ ) and sσ = (si,σ , s−i,σ ).

Those equilibria take threshold forms : for all i ∈ {1, 2} and j ∈ {H, L}, there exists xji,σ
such that sji,σ prescribes player i to stay if and only if xi,t ≥ xji,σ .
Although Γσ is not supermodular, Proposition 1 and Lemma 3 are sufficient for the construction of Milgrom and Roberts (1990) or Vives (1990) to hold. The strategies corresponding
to staying always, and exiting always are threshold-form Markovian strategies that bound
the set of possible strategies. The idea is then to iteratively apply the best response mappings to these extreme strategies. Proposition 1 and Lemma 3 guarantee that these iterated
strategies form converging sequences of Markovian threshold-form strategies.
L
Let us denote by xH
σ and xσ the pairs of thresholds associated with the highest and
L
H
lowest equilibria. Note that sLσ ¹ sH
σ , but xσ ≥ xσ , as staying more corresponds to using a
L
lower threshold. Let VσH and VσL be the value pairs respectively associated with sH
σ and sσ .

Assumption 5 implies the following lemma.
L
Lemma 4 sH
σ and sσ are respectively associated with the highest and lowest possible pairs of

rationalizable value functions, VσH and VσL . More precisely, if s−i is a rationalizable strategy,
12

Such results typically require a monotone likelihood ratio assumption – see for instance Athey (2002).
Here, this becomes unnecessary as σ goes to 0.

24

the value function Vi,σ associated with player i’s best-reply to s−i is such that at all histories
L
H
hi,t , Vi,σ
≤ Vi,σ (hi,t ) ≤ Vi,σ
.

The next section characterizes these extreme Markovian equilibria as σ goes to 0.

4.3

Dynamic selection

We can now state the main selection result of the paper. It shows that continuation values
associated with Markovian equilibria of Γσ must be fixed points of a mapping φσ (·) that
converges uniformly to an easily computable mapping Φ from R2 to R2 . This provides
explicit bounds for the set of rationalizable values and shows that the set of Markovian
equilibria – which is a continuum under full information – typically shrinks to a finite number
of elements under a global games information structure. The structure of the proof, given
in the Appendix, follows the analysis of Section 3.3.2.
Theorem 2 Under Assumptions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 there exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈
(0, σ), there exists a continuous mapping φσ (·) : R2 → R2 , mapping value pairs to value pairs
such that,
(i) VσL and VσH are the lowest and highest fixed points of φσ (·);
(ii) A vector of values (Vi , V−i ) ∈ R2 is supported by a Markovian equilibrium if
and only if it is a fixed point of φσ (·);
(iii) As σ goes to 0, φσ (·) converges uniformly over any compact set of R2 to an
increasing mapping Φ : R2 7→ R2 defined by

Φ(Vi , V−i ) = 

£

i

i
(w)1w<xRD (Vi ,V−i )
Ew (g (w) + βVi ) 1w>xRD (Vi ,V−i ) + W22

¤



£
¤ 
−i
(w)1w<xRD (Vi ,V−i )
Ew (g −i (w) + βV−i ) 1w>xRD (Vi ,V−i ) + W22

where xRD (Vi , V−i ) is the risk-dominant threshold of the one-shot game Ψ0 (Vi , V−i ).

25

A corollary of Theorem 2 is that whenever Φ has a unique fixed point, the set of rationalizable
strategies of game Γσ converges to a single pair of strategies as σ goes to 0.13 More generally,
extreme fixed points of Φ characterize the range of PBEs of game Γσ for σ small.
Computing these extreme fixed points is particularly easy in the focal case where the
distribution f of the state of the world w is very concentrated around a state w0 , so that
the game exhibits approximately constant payoffs. As before, for any V ∈ R2 , we denote by
G(V, w0 ) the associated one-shot complete information game augmented with continuation
1
(g i (w0 ), g −i (w0 )) the value of staying in every period and
value V. Denote by VH,∗ ≡ 1−β
i
i
(w0 )) the value of immediate exit, when the state is constant and equal
(w0 ), W22
VL,∗ ≡ (W22

to w0 . Consider a sequence {fn }n∈N of distributions for state of the world w such that for
all n ∈ N, Assumptions 1 to 5 are satisfied and fn converges to δw0 , the unit mass at w0 .14
Let Φn denote the value mapping associated with fn and let VnH and VnL denote the highest
and lowest fixed points of Φn . The following holds.
Proposition 2 (a robustness criterion)
(i) If (E, E) is risk-dominant in G(VH,∗ , w0 ), limn→∞ VnH = limn→∞ VnL = VL,∗ ;
(ii) If (S, S) is risk-dominant in G(VL,∗ , w0 ), limn→∞ VnL = limn→∞ VnH = VH,∗ ;
(iii) If (S, S) is risk-dominant in G(VH,∗ , w0 ) and (E, E) is risk-dominant in
G(VL,∗ , w0 ), limn→∞ VnH = VH,∗ and limn→∞ VnL = VL,∗ .
Because Proposition 2 depends only on payoffs at w0 , it can be used to define a simple
robustness criterion for cooperation in exit games with constant payoffs.15 Cooperation is
robust to the fear of miscoordination if and only if staying is risk-dominant in the one-shot
game augmented with the value of playing (S, S) in every period. If instead exiting is risk
13

A final technical step shows that under generic conditions, fixed points of φσ converge to the fixed points
of Φ. See Appendix A.3 for details.
R
14
Specifically {fn }n∈N converges to δw0 in the sense that limn→+∞ D|fn − δw0 | = 0, where D, defined
in Assumption 1, is a function that dominates payoff functions.
15
Note that these results correspond to an order of limits where first noise σ goes to 0 and then distribution
f goes to δw0 . It can be shown that this order of limits is the one that corresponds to the most stringent
robustness test. Taking the other order of limits brings us back to the complete information case.

26

dominant in this game, then the only robust equilibrium is for both players to exit in every
period. Finally, it may be that staying is risk-dominant in the game where players expect to
stay in the future, while exit is risk-dominant in the game where players expect to exit in the
future. In that environment, staying always and exiting always are both robust equilibria. As
Section 5.2 highlights, this tractable robustness criterion offers a convenient way to explore
how global games perturbations may change comparative statics.

4.4

Local dominance solvability

One of the central results of Carlsson and van Damme (1993) is that as the noise term σ
becomes small, one-shot global games are dominance solvable. In that sense, selection of the
risk-dominant equilibrium is robust to the relaxation of common knowledge of equilibrium
strategies, and only relies on common knowledge of rationality. As Section 3 highlights in the
context of the partnership game example, the global games perturbation does not necessarily
yield unique selection in settings with an infinite horizon, and dominance solvability does
not generally hold. This section shows that the global games perturbation gives bite to the
weaker concept of local dominance solvability.16
Nash equilibrium assumes common knowledge of equilibrium strategies. When a game
is dominance solvable, as one-shot global games are, common knowledge of the set of all
strategies is sufficient to get to equilibrium. A game is locally dominance solvable at an
equilibrium s if common knowledge that strategies belong to some neighborhood of s yields
s as the only rationalizable strategy profile. This section characterizes the asymptotic local
dominance solvability of game Γσ around its Markovian equilibria. For this we need to
introduce the mapping ξ which maps future cooperation thresholds to current cooperation
thresholds.
Definition 6 (the threshold mapping) For all x ∈ R, let us denote by BRVi,0 (x) player
i’s value for best-replying to a strategy of threshold x in the complete information game Γ0 .
16

See for instance Guesnerie (2002) or Moulin (1984).

27

The threshold mapping ξ : R → R is defined by
∀x ∈ R, ξ(x) = xRD (BRVi,0 (x), BRV−i,0 (x)).
Note that by Assumptions 3 and 5, ξ is weakly increasing.
For any x, ξ(x) is the risk-dominance threshold of Ψ0 (BRVi,0 (x), BRV−i,0 (x)), the oneshot game augmented with the value of best-replying against x in the future. If a pair of
values V is a fixed point of Φ, then xRD (V) is a fixed point of ξ. Conversely, if x is a
fixed point of ξ, then (BRVi,0 (x), BRV−i,0 (x)) is a fixed point of Φ. The principal reason for
introducing ξ is that it is a mapping from R to R while Φ is a mapping from R2 to R2 . This
facilitates the study of its fixed points.
Given order ¹, for any real numbers y < z, we can define [sz , sy ] as the interval of
strategies greater than sz and smaller than sy .17 The following result holds.
Theorem 3 (asymptotic local dominance solvability) Whenever x is a stable fixed point
of ξ and y < z belong to the basin of attraction of x with respect to ξ then
∆
∆
lim lim [BRi,σ
◦ BR−i,σ
]n ([sz , sy ]) = {sx }.

σ→0 n→+∞

It follows from Theorem 3 that as σ goes to 0, game Γσ is asymptotically locally dominance
solvable at any Markovian equilibrium associated with a stable fixed point of ξ.18 In particL
ular, extreme Markovian equilibira sH
σ and sσ are asymptotically locally dominance solvable.

Theorem 3 also characterizes the basin of attraction of Markovian equilibria with respect to
iterated best-reply. This quantifies the extent to which common knowledge of equilibrium
strategies can be relaxed. The greater the basin of attraction, the more common knowledge of equilibrium strategies can be relaxed. Finally, Theorem 3 provides additional insight
on the structure of equilibria. First, it implies that there can be no equilibrium strictly
17

This interval includes non-Markovian strategies.
Note that computations can be simplified by considering
the mapping ζ : ¤R 7→ R defined by, ζ(x) =
£
1
i
E g i + (W22
− g i )1x>w . Computing ζ is simpler
xRD (N Vi (x), N V−i (x)), where N Vi (x) ≡ 1−βP rob(w>x)
than computing ξ and both functions coincide around their fixed points. However, ζ need not be increasing.
18

28

contained within two consecutive Markovian equilibria (Appendix B.2 provides additional
results on non-Markovian equilibria). Second, any Markovian equilibrium associated with
an unstable fixed point of ξ is unstable with respect to iterated best-reply.

5

Discussion

5.1

Modeling fear of miscoordination

As has been highlighted in Section 3, in the context of this paper, the global games perturbation is best understood as a way to model fear of miscoordination. The idea that players
make noisy private assessments of the world, and that this makes coordination difficult,
is reasonable. Still, there are other ways to introduce miscoordination in equilibirum. In
particular, trembling hand perturbations and quantal response equilbrium both share this
feature. However, they correspond to very different models of miscoordination fear.
In a trembling hand approach, for instance, losses upon miscoordination affect the sustainability of cooperation if and only if the likelihood of trembles is high. In that case
however, while losses upon miscoordination affect the choices made by the players, realized behavior approaches randomness. A quantal response approach would share the same
drawback.19 This contrasts with the approach developed in this paper, where the ex ante
likelihood of miscoordination is vanishing and players are, on average, very good at predicting their opponent’s behavior. Here, losses upon miscoordination affects the sustainability
of cooperation by restricting the players’ ability to select the efficient equilibrium. When
losses upon miscoordination increase, joint exit tends to become a focal point.
One can think of the global games approach as endogenizing the likelihood of trembles.
In particular, the likelihood of miscoordination depends on both the state of the world and
the strategies that players are using. Even as the players’ information becomes arbitrarily
good, the likelihood of miscoordination remains large around the critical states at which
19

Note that a variant of quantal response in which players obtain precise signals about one another’s payoff
shocks would generate predictions qualitatively similar to those of this paper.

29

players change their behavior. This imposes significant constraints on equilibrium strategies
and, as the next section discusses, can significantly alter comparative statics.

5.2

Fear of miscoordination and comparative statics

The robustness criterion of Proposition 2 is a useful tool to explore how fear of miscoordination can affect comparative statics. Consider for instance the partnership game of Section
3, in a setting where the state of the world is approximately constant and equal to w0 ,
1
with 1−β
w0 > VE , so that staying permanently is the efficient outcome. Under complete

information, staying is a Nash equilibrium if and only if
(9)

1
w0 > VE + b.
1−β

In contrast, Proposition 2 implies that staying is robust to the introduction of small amounts
of private information about the state of the world if and only if
(10)

1
w0 > [VE + b] + [(1 − β)VE + c − w0 ].
1−β

Whenever the opposite inequality holds, permanent exit is the only robust equilibrium.
Condition (9) reflects that under complete information, cooperation is sustainable if and only
if the value of continued cooperation is greater than the deviation temptation. Condition
(10) highlights that when the state of the world is uncertain and players try to second guess
each other’s actions, then cooperation is sustainable if and only if the value of continued
cooperation is greater than the deviation temptation plus a penalty that corresponds, in this
symmetric game, to losses upon miscoordination. Whenever a parameter of interest affects
the deviation temptation and losses upon miscoordination differently, taking into account
fear of miscoordination may significantly change comparative statics. For instance, Chassang
and Padro i Miquel (2008) consider a dynamic model of peace and conflict, and show that
the impact of weapon stocks on the sustainability of peace depends crucially on whether fear
of miscoordination is taken into account.
30

This being said, the global games perturbation clearly does not overturn all comparative
statics. Consider for instance comparative statics with respect to the discount factor β. Let
1
us interpret value VE in the partnership game as a discounted value VE = 1−β
wE , where

wE < w0 is the players’ flow payoff when both choose not to put effort in the partnership.
Conditions (9) and (10) both hold for β close enough to 1. In particular, losses upon
miscoordination remain bounded while the difference between continued cooperation and
the deviation temptation grows arbitrarily large. As a result there exist approximately
efficient equilibria as β approaches 1. This property holds more generally for exit games
whose payoffs are reduced-forms for trigger strategies in a repeated game. In such games,
losses upon miscoordination remain bounded and fear of miscoordination affects predictions
only if the discount factor is not arbitrarily close to 1.
Note that this property need not hold for exit games that are not reduced-forms for
trigger strategies. Consider the variation on the partnership game, where players get flow
payoffs
S

S

E

w0

w0 − c

E b + VE

VE

1
where VE = 1−β
wE with 0 < wE < w0 . In this game, if player i stays while her partner exits,

she does not get her outside option VE in the future.20 Hence, as β goes to 1, losses upon
miscoordination also grow arbitrarily large. If w0 < 2wE , increasing the discount factor β
makes it more difficult to sustain cooperation robustly, and as β approaches 1, immediate
exit is the only robust equilibrium.

6

Conclusion

This paper provides a framework to model fear of miscoordination in dynamic environments.
It analyzes the robustness of cooperation to global games perturbations in a class of dynamic
games with exit. In equilibrium, this departure from common knowledge generates a fear of
20

One interpretation is that she goes bankrupt.

31

miscoordination that pushes players away from the full information Pareto efficient frontier,
even though actual miscoordination happens with a vanishing probability. Payoffs upon
miscoordination, which play no role when considering the Pareto efficient frontier under
complete information, determine the extent of the efficiency loss.
The first step of the analysis is to show that rationalizable strategies of exit games are
bounded by extreme Markovian equilibria. The second step uses the dynamic programming
approach of Abreu, Pearce, and Stacchetti (1990) to recursively apply selection results for
one-shot global games. As players’ signals become increasingly correlated, this yields a fixed
point equation characterizing values associated with Markovian equilibria.
Whenever this fixed point equation has a unique solution, the set of rationalizable strategies of the game with perturbed information converges to a singleton as signals become
arbitrarily precise. Unlike in one-shot two-by-two games, infinite horizon exit games can
admit multiple equilibria under a global games information structure. This implies that the
global games perturbation does not necessarily lead to dominance solvability in exit games
with infinite horizon. Studying the less stringent notion of local dominance solvability shows
that still, the global games perturbation implies a lot of structure on equilibrium strategies.
Among other things, Markovian equilibria are typically locally unique. This contrasts with
the complete information game which admits a continuum of equilibria.
Finally, by introducing a realistic risk of miscoordination in equilibrium, the global games
perturbation places additional intuitive restrictions on sustainable levels of cooperation. In
addition to the deviation temptation, losses upon miscoordination become an important determinant of the sustainability of cooperation. Taking into account the impact of fear of
miscoordination on cooperation can significantly change comparative statics. With applications in mind, the paper provides a tractable robustness criterion.

32

A

Proofs

A.1

Proofs for Section 4.2

Given a continuation value function Vi , the expected payoffs upon staying and exiting –
respectively denoted by ΠiS (Vi ) and ΠiE – are
(11)
(12)

h
i
i
i
ΠiS (Vi ) = E W12
(w) + {g i (w) + βVi (hi,t , w) − W12
(w)}1s−i =S |hi,t , s−i
i
h
i
i
i
(w)}1s−i =S |hi,t , s−i .
(w) − W22
(w) + {W21
ΠiE = E W22

Proof of Lemma 1: We begin with point (i). An action profile ai belongs to the set
of one-shot best-replies BRi,σ (a−i , Vi ) if and only if ai prescribes S when ΠiS (Vi ) > ΠiE and
prescribes E when ΠiS (Vi ) < ΠiE . Because ties are possible BRi,σ (a−i , Vi ) need not be a
singleton. However, by breaking the ties consistently in favor of either S or E, one can
L
construct strategies aH
i and ai that are respectively the greatest and smallest elements of
BRi,σ (a−i , Vi ) with respect to ¹.
The proof of point (ii) goes as follows. Let Vi be the value player i obtains from bestreplying to s−i . Since s−i is Markovian, at any history h0−i,t the conditional strategy s−i|h0−i,t
is identical to s−i , and the value player i expects conditional on h0i,t is always Vi . Hence,
si ∈ BRi,σ (s−i ) if and only if the one-shot action profile prescribed by si at a history h0i,t
belongs to BRi,σ (s−i , Vi ), where s−i is identified with its one-shot action profile. Since
L
H
BRi,σ (s−i , Vi ) admits highest and lowest elements aH
i and ai , the Markovian strategies si
L
and sLi respectively associated with the one-shot profiles aH
i and ai are the highest and
lowest elements of BRi,σ (s−i ) with respect to ¹.

¥

Proof of Lemma 2: Point (i) is an application of Proposition 1 of Chassang (2008). The
H
proof of (ii) is given for the greatest one-shot best-reply BRi,σ
. Player i chooses S over E
whenever ΠiS (Vi ) ≥ ΠiE . As equation (11) shows, ΠiS (Vi ) is increasing in Vi while ΠiE does
H
H
not depend on Vi . This yields that BRi,σ
(a−i , V ) ¹ BRi,σ
(a−i , V 0 ). The same proof applies
for the lowest one-shot best-reply. ¥

Proof of Lemma 3: Consider s0 ∈ BRi,σ (sx ), and denote by V the value player i expects from best-responding. The one-shot action profile a0 induced by s0 must belong to
BRi,σ (sx , V ). Proposition 2 of Chassang (2008) implies that there exists σ such that for all
σ ∈ (0, σ) and all x, there is a unique such one-shot best-reply. It takes a threshold form ax0
33

and the threshold x0 is continuous in both x and V . This concludes the proof.

¥

Proof of Theorem 1: Given Proposition 1 and Lemma 3, the methodology of Milgrom
and Roberts (1990) and Vives (1990) applies directly. Simply note that the strategies corresponding to “always staying” and “always exiting” are Markovian threshold-form strategies
and apply the best-reply correspondence iteratively. ¥
Proof of Lemma 4: Consider the highest equilibrium sH
σ . For any rationalizable strategy
H
s−i , s−i ¹ s−i . Assumption 5 implies that player i gets a higher value from best-replying
H
against sH
−i,σ than s−i . Thus Vi ≤ Vi,σ in the functional sense. A similar argument yields the
other inequality. ¥

A.2

Proofs for Section 4.3

The proof follows the structure of the analysis given in Section 3.3. The first lemma establishes that global games selection holds uniformly over families of one-shot global games
augmented with continuation values.
Lemma A.1 (uniform selection) For any compact subset V ⊂ R2 , consider the family
of one-shot global games Ψσ (V) indexed by V ∈ V. If Assumptions 2 and 3 hold, so that
for all V ∈ V, the full information one-shot game G(V, w) has pure equilibria which are all
symmetric, and admits dominance regions with respect to w, then
(i) There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), all one-shot global games
Ψσ (V), indexed by values V ∈ V, have a unique rationalizable equilibrium;
(ii) This equilibrium takes a threshold form with thresholds denoted by x∗σ (V) ∈
R2 . The mapping x∗σ (·) is continuous over V;
(iii) As σ goes to 0, each component of x∗σ (V) (∈ R2 )converges uniformly over
V ∈ V to the risk-dominance threshold of Ψ0 (V), denoted by xRD (V) (∈ R).
Proof of Lemma A.1:
(2008). ¥

This is a direct application of Theorems 2, 3 and 4 of Chassang

Proof of Theorem 2: For any fixed σ, any Markovian equilibrium of Γσ is associated with
a vector of constant continuation values Vσ = (Vi,σ , V−i,σ ). By continuity of the min-max
34

values, for any ν > 0, there exists σ > 0, such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), Vi,σ ∈ [mi − ν, Mi ].
Stationarity implies that equilibrium actions at any time t must form a Nash equilibrium of
the one-shot game
S

E

i
S g i (wt ) + βVi,σ W12
(wt )
i
i
E W21 (wt )
W22 (wt )

where i is the row player and players get signals xi,t = wt + σεi,t . All such one-shot games
Ψσ (V), indexed by V ∈ [mi − ν, Mi ] × [m−i − ν, M−i ] and σ > 0 have a global game structure
à la Carlsson and van Damme (1993).
Assumption 4 implies that there exists ν > 0 such that for all V ∈ [mi − ν, Mi ] × [m−i −
ν, M−i ] and all w ∈ I, the one-shot game G(V, w) admits pure equilibria and they are all
symmetric. Hence, Lemma A.1 implies that the following are true
1. There exists σ such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and V ∈ [mi − ν, Mi ] × [m−i − ν, M−i ],
the game Ψσ (V) has a unique pair of rationalizable strategies. These strategies take a
threshold-form and the associated pair of thresholds is denoted by x∗σ (V);
2. The pair of thresholds x∗σ (V) is continuous in V;
3. As σ goes to 0, x∗σ (V) converges to the risk dominant threshold xRD (V) uniformly
over V ∈ [mi − ν, Mi ] × [m−i − ν, M−i ].
The first result, joint selection, implies that there is a unique vector of expected values from
playing game Ψσ (V), which we denote φσ (V). The other two results imply that φσ (V) is
continuous in V, and that as σ goes to 0, φσ (V) converges uniformly over V ∈ ×i∈{1,2} [mi −
ν, Mi ] to the vector of values Φ(V) players expect from using the risk-dominant strategy
under full information.
Stationarity implies that the value vector V of any Markovian equilibrium of Γσ must
satisfy the fixed point equation V = φσ (V). Conversely, any vector of values V satisfying
V = φσ (V) is supported by the Markovian equilibrium in which players play the unique
equilibrium of game Ψσ (V) each period. This gives us (ii).
Furthermore, we know that the equilibrium strategies of game Ψσ (V) converge to the
risk-dominant strategy as σ goes to 0. This allows us to compute explicitly the limit function
Φ. Because the risk-dominance threshold is decreasing in the continuation value, and using
Assumption 5, it follows that Φ is increasing in V. This proves (iii).
Finally, (i) is a straightforward implication of (ii). Values associated with Markovian
equilibria of Γσ are the fixed points of φσ (·). Hence the highest and lowest values associated
35

with Markovian equilibria are also the highest and lowest fixed points of φσ (·). ¥
Proof of Proposition 2: First, for any µ > 0, there exists N > 0 such that for any
n ≥ N , VL,∗ − µ ≤ VnL ≤ VnH ≤ VH,∗ + µ.
Let us show point (i). Assume that exit is risk-dominant in G(VH,∗ , w0 ). This means
that there exists τ > 0 such that xRD (VH,∗ ) > w0 + τ . By continuity of xRD this implies that
there exists µ > 0 such that for all V satisfying V < VH,∗ + µ, we have xRD (V) > w0 + τ /2.
This and the fact that fn converges to a Dirac mass at w0 implies that there exists N such
that for all n ≥ N , for all V ∈ [VL,∗ − µ, VH,∗ + µ], Φn (V) < VL,∗ + µ. By taking µ
arbitrarily small, it follows that VnH converges to VL,∗ as n goes to infinity. Similar proofs
hold for points (ii) and (iii). ¥

A.3

On the convergence of fixed points of φσ

The uniform convergence of φσ to Φ is useful only to the extent that it implies that the fixed
points of φσ converge to the fixed points Φ. Proposition A.1 shows that uniform convergence
of φσ to Φ implies that fixed points of φσ necessarily converge to a subset of fixed points
of Φ as σ goes to 0. This corresponds to the upper-hemicontinuity of fixed points of φσ at
σ = 0. Proposition A.2 shows that under generic conditions, any fixed point of Φ is the limit
of a sequence (Vσ )σ>0 of fixed points of φσ . This corresponds to the lower-hemicontinuity
of fixed points of φσ as σ goes to 0.
Proposition A.1 (upper-hemicontinuity) The set of fixed points of φσ is upper hemicontinuous at σ = 0. For any sequence of positive numbers {σn }n∈N converging to 0, if
{Vn }n∈N ≡ {(Vi,n , V−i,n )}n∈N is a sequence of fixed points of φσn converging to a pair of
values V, then V is a fixed point of Φ.
Proof of Proposition A.1: Since Vn converges to V and Φ is continuous, for all τ > 0,
there exists N1 such that for all n ≥ N1
||Φ(V) − V||sup ≤ ||Φ(Vn ) − Vn ||sup + τ /2.
Since φσn (·) converges uniformly to Φ and Vn is a fixed point of φσn , there exists N2 such
that for all n ≥ N2 , ||Φ(Vn ) − Vn ||sup ≤ τ /2. This yields that ||Φ(V) − V||sup ≤ τ for all
τ > 0. Hence, V must be a fixed point of Φ. ¥

36

Let us now turn to the question of whether or not all fixed points of Φ correspond to
fixed points of φσ for σ small. So far Markovian equilibria have been characterized by their
values. Now it becomes convenient to characterize Markovian equilibria by their cooperation
thresholds. Recall the threshold mapping ξ introduced in Definition 6. A pair V is a fixed
point of Φ if and only if xRD (V) is a fixed point of ξ.
Definition A.1 (non-singular fixed points) A fixed point x of ξ is non-singular if and
only if there exists ² > 0 such that either
∀y ∈ [x − ², x), ξ(y) < y

and ∀y ∈ (x, x + ²], ξ(y) > y

or ∀y ∈ [x − ², x), ξ(y) > y

and ∀y ∈ (x, x + ²], ξ(y) < y.

In other terms, x is non-singular whenever ξ cuts strictly through the 45o line at x.
Proposition A.2 (lower hemicontinuity) Consider x, a non-singular fixed point of ξ.
For any σ > 0 small enough, there exists a threshold-form Markovian equilibrium of Γσ with
threshold xσ such that (xσ )σ>0 converges to (x, x) as σ goes to 0.
Hence, generically, all fixed points of ξ and Φ are associated with Markovian equilibria of Γσ
for σ small.
Proof of Proposition A.2: The proof uses Theorem 3 on local dominance solvability,
proven in Section 4.4. For any x ∈ R, by Lemma 3, BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx ) takes a threshold
form, sx0 . Define χσ (·) by χσ (x) = x0 . For σ small enough, Lemma 3 and Proposition 1 imply
that χσ is continuous and increasing. By definition of χσ , sx is a threshold form Markovian
equilibrium of Γσ if and only if χσ (x) = x. Consider a non-singular fixed point of ξ denoted
by x. There are two cases: x is either a stable or an unstable fixed point of ξ.
Assume that x is a stable fixed point – i.e. ξ cuts the 45o line from above – then Theorem
3 implies that, for all η > 0, there exists σ > 0 and η ∈ (0, η) such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ),
the interval [x − η, x + η] is stable by χσ . Since χσ is continuous and increasing, this implies
that it has a fixed point belonging to [x − η, x + η]. This proves the lower hemicontinuity of
stable fixed points of ξ.
Assume that x is unstable. Then for any η > 0, there exists η ∈ (0, η) such that x − η
and x + η respectively belong to the basins of attraction of a lower and a higher fixed point
of ξ. Lemma A.3 implies that there exist η 0 and η 00 in (0, η) such that χσ (x − η 0 ) < x − η 0
and χσ (x + η 00 ) > x + η 00 . Since χσ is continuous, this implies that it admits a fixed point

37

within [x − η 0 , x + η 00 ]. This proves the lower hemicontinuity of unstable non-singular fixed
points of ξ. ¥

A.4

Proofs for Section 4.4

The proof of Theorem 3 is broken down in multiple steps. Lemma A.2 shows that the bestreply correspondence does not deviate from the identity mapping around fixed points of ξ.
Lemma A.3 is the main step of the proof. It shows that whenever x is a stable fixed point
of ξ, then for σ small enough, the first step of iterated best-response shrinks neighborhoods
of sx .
Lemma A.2 Consider x, a fixed point of ξ. Then there exists η > 0 and σ > 0 such
that for all σ ∈ [0, σ), x0 ∈ [x − η, x + η], and i ∈ {1, 2} there exists x00 ∈ R such that
BRi,σ (s0x ) = {sx00 } and |x00 − x0 | < 2σ.
Proof of Lemma A.2: Since x is a fixed point of ξ, it must be that x is the risk-dominant
threshold of the augmented one-shot game G(BRVi,0 (x), BRV−i,0 (x), w). Hence, at w = x,
both (E, E) and (S, S) are strict Nash equilibria of this one-shot game. Since BRVi,σ (x0 ) is
continuous in σ and x0 , and payoffs are continuous in w, there exist η > 0 and σ < η/4 such
that for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and x0 ∈ [x − η, x + η], then for all w ∈ [x0 − σ, x0 + σ], both (E, E)
and (S, S) are strict Nash equilibria of G(BRVi,σ (x0 ), BRV−i,σ (x0 ), w).
For any σ ∈ (0, σ) and x0 ∈ [x − η/2, x + η/2], the best-reply to a threshold-form strategy
is also a threshold-form strategy. This implies that indeed BRi,σ (x0 ) takes the form sx00 . Let
us show that|x00 −x0 | < 2σ. When she gets a signal xi,t < x0 −2σ, player i knows for sure that
player −i will be playing E. From the definition of η, we know that (E, E) is an equilibrium
of G(BRVi,σ (x0 ), BRV−i,σ (x0 ), w) for all values of w consistent with a signal value xi,t . Thus,
it must be that player i’s best-reply is to play E as well. Inversely, when she gets a signal
xi,t > x0 + 2σ, player i knows that player −i will play S, and her best-reply is to Stay as
well. This implies that |x00 − x0 | < 2σ.

¥

Lemma A.3 Consider a stable fixed point x of ξ and y in the basin of attraction of x. If
y < x, then there exists x0 ≤ y and σ > 0 such that x0 belongs to the basin of attraction of x
and, for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and i ∈ {1, 2}, we have BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx0 ) ¹ sx0 .21
21

Recall that if a and b are thresholds such that a > b then the corresponding strategies satisfy sa ¹ sb .

38

Similarly, if y > x, there exists x00 ≥ y and σ such that x00 belongs to the basin of
attraction of x and for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and i ∈ {1, 2}, sx00 ¹ BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx00 ).
Proof of Lemma A.3: Let us prove the first part of the lemma. Define ba− (x) = inf{x̃ <
x | ∀y ∈ [x̃, x], ξ(y) > y}, the infimum of the basin of attraction of x. Because x is stable, its
basin of attraction is nonempty and ba− (x) is well-defined, although it may take value −∞.
We distinguish two cases, either ba− (x) = −∞ or ba− (x) ∈ R.
If ba− (x) = −∞, any x0 < x belongs to the basin of attraction of x. Assumption 2
implies that there exists x such that for all σ < 1, BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (s−∞ ) ¹ sx . Pick any
x0 < min{x, x}. Using the monotonicity implied by Proposition 1, we conclude that there
exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx0 ) ¹ BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (s−∞ ) ¹ sx0 .
Consider now the case where ba− (x) ∈ R. By continuity of ξ, we have that ξ(ba− (x)) =
ba− (x). From Lemma A.2 we know that there exist η > 0 and σ such that for all x0 ∈
[ba− (x)−η, ba− (x)+η], and i ∈ {1, 2}, BRi,σ (sx0 ) = sx00i with |x00i −x0 | < 2σ. By definition, we
must have y > ba− (x). Thus we can pick x0 ∈ (ba− (x), ba− (x) + η) such that x0 < min{x, y}.
We have that ξ(x0 ) > x0 . By continuity of ξ there exists x̃0 such that x̃0 < x0 and ξ(x̃0 ) > x0 .
os
To reduce confusion, we temporarily use the notation BRi,σ
(a, V ) to denote the best-reply of
player i to a one shot action profile a and continuation value V . Using the fact that one-shot
action profiles are identical to Markovian strategies, we obtain,
(13)

os
os
BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx0 ) = BRi,σ
( BR−i,σ
(sx0 , BRV−i,σ (x0 )) , BRVi,σ (BR−i,σ (sx0 )) )

We know that |x00−i − x0 | ≤ 2σ. Thus there exists σ small enough such that BR−i,σ (sx0 ) ¹ sx̃0 .
Joint with Assumption 5, this implies that, BRVi,σ (BR−i,σ (sx0 )) ≤ BRVi,σ (x̃0 ). Furthermore,
x̃0 < x0 implies that BRVi,σ (x0 ) ≤ BRVi,σ (x̃0 ). Hence, using inequality (13), and the fact
that for i ∈ {1, 2}, BRios (a, V ) is increasing in a and V with respect to ¹, we obtain
(14)

¡
¢
os
os
BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx0 ) ¹ BRi,σ
BR−i
(sx0 , BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )), BRVi,σ (x̃0 )
os
os
¹ BRi,σ
(·, BRVi,σ (x̃0 )) ◦ BR−i,σ
(·, BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )) (sx0 )

Lemma A.1 implies that there exists σ small enough such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ) and all
(Vi , V−i ) ∈ [mi , Mi ] × [m−i , M−i ], the game Ψσ (Vi , V−i ) has a unique rationalizable pair
of strategies x∗σ (Vi , V−i ). Lemma A.1 also implies that x∗σ (Vi , V−i ) converges uniformly to
xRD (Vi , V−i ) as σ goes to 0. This implies that x∗σ (BRVi,σ (x̃0 ), BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )) converges to
(ξ(x0 ), ξ(x0 )) as σ goes to 0. Since x0 < ξ(x̃0 ), it implies there exists σ such that for all

39

σ ∈ (0, σ), x0 < x∗σ (BRVi,σ (x̃0 ), BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )).
The fact that Ψσ (BRVi,σ (x̃0 ), BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )) has a unique rationalizable strategy and the
monotonicity property of Proposition 2 imply that the sequence of threshold-form strategies
¡

¢n
os
os
BRi,σ
(·, BRVi,σ (x̃0 )) ◦ BR−i
(·, BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )) (sx0 ),

for n ∈ N,

converges monotonically to the Markovian equilibrium of threshold x∗σ (BRVi,σ (x0 ), BRV−i,σ (x0 )).
Since x0 < x∗σ (BRVi,σ (x̃0 ), BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )), the sequence must be decreasing with respect to the
os
os
order ¹ on strategies. Thus BRi,σ
(·, BRVi,σ (x̃0 )) ◦ BR−i,σ
(·, BRV−i,σ (x̃0 )) (sx0 ) ¹ sx0 . Using
inequality (14), this yields that indeed BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx0 ) ¹ sx0 .
The second part of the lemma results from a symmetric reasoning, switching all inequalities.

¥

Proof of Theorem 3: Using Lemma A.3, we know there exist σ, x− ≤ y and x+ ≥ z,
with x ∈ (x− , x+ ) and [x− , x+ ] included in the basin of attraction of x, such that for all
σ ∈ (0, σ), and i ∈ {1, 2},
BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx− ) ¹ sx−

and sx+ ¹ BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ (sx+ ).

These inequalities and Proposition 1 imply by iteration that for all n ∈ N,
¡

∆
∆
BRi,σ
◦ BR−i,σ

¢n

([sx+ , sx− ]) ⊂ [(BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ )n (sx+ ), (BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ )n (sx− )]
⊂ [(BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ )n−1 (sx+ ), (BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ )n−1 (sx− )]
⊂ · · · ⊂ [sx+ , sx− ].

Consider the decreasing sequence {(BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ )n (sx− )}n∈N . As n goes to ∞, it must converge to a threshold form strategy with threshold x−
, BR−i,σ (sx−i,σ ))
i,σ ∈ [x− , x+ ]. Moreover (sx−
i,σ
must be a Markovian threshold-form equilibrium of Γσ . Lemma A.1 implies that as σ goes
−
to 0, any converging subsequence of {(x−
i,σ , x−i,σ )}σ>0 must converge to a symmetric pair
(x̃, x̃) such that x̃ is a fixed point of ξ and x̃ ∈ [x− , x+ ]. The only fixed point of ξ in [x− , x+ ]
is x. This implies that as σ goes to 0, x−
i,σ must converge to x. Similarly, as n goes to ∞,
n
the sequence (BRi,σ ◦ BR−i,σ ) (sx+ ) converges to a threshold strategy with a threshold x+
i,σ
that converges to x as σ goes to 0. This concludes the proof. ¥

40

References
[1] Abreu, Dilip, David Pearce, and Ennio Stacchetti, Optimal Cartel Equilibria with Imperfect Monitoring, Journal of Economic Theory, Vol. 39, No. 1, pp. 251-269, 1986.
[2] Abreu, Dilip, David Pearce and Ennio Stacchetti, Toward a Theory of Discounted Repeated Games with Imperfect Monitoring, Econometrica, Vol. 58, No. 5., pp. 1041-1063.
1990.
[3] Angeletos, Marios, Christian Hellwig and Alessandro Pavan, Dynamic Global Games of
Regime Change: Learning, Multiplicity, and Timing of Attacks, Econometrica, Vol. 75,
No. 3, pp. 711-756, 2007.
[4] Athey, Susan, Monotone Comparative Statics Under Uncertainty, Quarterly Journal of
Economics, Vol. 117, No. 1, pp. 187-223, 2002.
[5] Baliga, Sandeep and Stephen Morris, Coordination, Spillovers, and Cheap Talk, Journal
of Economic Theory, Vol. 105, No. 2, pp. 450-468, 2002.
[6] Burdzy, Krzysztof, David Frankel, and Ady Pauzner, Fast Equilibrium Selection by Rational Players Living in a Changing World, Econometrica, Vol. 69, No. 1, pp. 163-189,
2001.
[7] Carlsson, Hans and Eric van Damme, Global Games and Equilibrium Selection, Econometrica, Vol. 61, No. 5, pp. 989-1018, 1993.
[8] Chamley, Christophe, Coordinating Regime Switches, Quarterly Journal of Economics,
Vol. 114, No. 3, pp. 869-905, 1999.
[9] Chassang, Sylvain, Uniform Selection in Global Games, Journal of Economic Theory,
Vol. 139, No. 1, pp. 222-241, 2008
[10] Chassang, Sylvain, and Gerard Padro i Miquel, Conflict and Deterrence under Strategic
Risk, NBER Working Paper No. W13964, 2008.
[11] Chassang, Sylvain, and Satoru Takahashi, Robustness to Incomplete Information in
Repeated Games, Unpublished Manuscript, Princeton University, 2009.
[12] Echenique, Federico, Extensive Form Complementarities, Games and Economic Behavior, Vol. 46, No. 2, pp. 348-364, 2004.
41

[13] Frankel, David, Stephen Morris, and Ady Pauzner, Equilibrium Selection in Global
Games with Strategic Complementarities, Journal of Economic Theory, Vol. 108, No. 1,
pp. 1-44, 2003.
[14] Frankel, David, and Ady Pauzner, Resolving Indeterminacy in Dynamic Settings: the
Role of Shocks, Quarterly Journal of Economics, No. 115, pp. 283-304, 2000.
[15] Fudenberg, Drew, David Levine, and Eric Maskin, The Folk Theorem with Imperfect
Public Information, Econometrica, Vol. 62, No. 5., pp. 997-1039, 1994.
[16] Green, Edward, and Robert Porter, Noncooperative Collusion under Imperfect Price
Information, Econometrica, Vol. 52, No. 1, pp. 87-100, 1984.
[17] Giannitsarou, Chrissy, and Flavio Toxvaerd, Recursive Global Games, CEPR Discussion
Paper No. DP6470, 2007.
[18] Guesnerie, Roger, Anchoring Economic Predictions in Common Knowledge, Vol. 70,
No. 2, pp. 439-480, 2002.
[19] Harsanyi, John and Reinhart Selten, A General Theory of Equilibrium Selection in
Games, MIT Press, 1988.
[20] Kajii, Atsushi and Stephen Morris, The Robustness of Equilibria to Incomplete Information, Econometrica, Vol 65, No. 6, pp. 1283-1309, 1997.
[21] Levin, Jonathan, A Note on Global Games with Overlapping Generations, Stanford
university Mimeo, 2001.
[22] Mailath, George, and Stephen Morris, Repeated Games with Almost Public Monitoring,
Journal of Economic Theory, Vol. 102, pp. 189-228, 2002.
[23] Mailath, George, and Stephen Morris, Coordination Failure in Repeated Games with
Almost-Public Monitoring, Theoretical Economics, Vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 311-340, 2006.
[24] Milgrom, Paul, and John Roberts, Rationalizability, Learning, and Equilibrium in
Games with Strategic Complementarities, Econometrica, Vol. 58, No. 6, pp. 1255-1277,
1990.
[25] Milgrom, Paul, and Chris Shannon, Monotone Comparative Statics, Econometrica, Vol.
62, No. 1, pp. 157-180, 1994.
42

[26] Morris, Stephen and Hyun Song Shin, A Theory of the Onset of Currency Attacks, in
Agenor, Vines and Weber, eds., Asian Financial Crisis: Causes, Contagion and Consequences, Cambridge, UK, Cambridge University Press, 1999.
[27] Moulin, Herve, Dominance Solvability and Cournot Stability, Mathematical Social Science, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 83-102, 1984.
[28] Ordoñez, Guillermo, Fragility of Reputation and Clustering in Risk-Taking, UCLA
mimeo, 2008.
[29] Radner, Roy, Roger Myerson, and Eric Maskin, An Example of a Repeated Partnership
Game with Discounting and with Uniformly Inefficient Equilibria, Review of Economic
Studies, Vol. 53, No. 1, pp. 59-69, 1986.
[30] Steiner, Jakub, Coordination of Mobile Labor, Journal of Economic Theory, Vol. 139,
No. 1, pp. 25-46, 2008.
[31] Vives, Xavier, Nash Equilibrium with Strategic Complementarities, Journal of Mathematical Economics, No. 19, pp. 305-321, 1990.

43

B

“Fear of Miscoordination and the Robustness of Cooperation in Dynamic Global Games with Exit”
Supplementary Material: Online Appendix
Abstract
This appendix provides additional results on equilibria of exit game Γσ as the
noise parameter σ becomes small. Section B.1 shows that all Markovian equilibria will
be approximately symmetric for σ small. Section B.2 studies the structure of timedependent Markovian equilibria. Finally, Section B.3 provides sufficient conditions
under which game Γσ is asymptotically dominance solvable.

B.1

Asymptotically Symmetric Play in Markovian Equilibria

Theorem 1 establishes that for noise parameter σ small enough, the set of rationalizable
strategies of Γσ is bounded by a most cooperative and a least cooperative equilibria, that
are Markovian and take a threshold form.
The following proposition shows that for σ small enough, all Markovian equilibria take
a threshold form and are asymptotically symmetric.
Proposition B.1 There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), every Markovian equilibrium s of Γσ takes a threshold form with thresholds (xi,σ , x−i,σ ). Furthermore, we have that
|xi,σ − x−i,σ | < 2σ.
Proof: The fact that for σ small enough, all Markovian equilibria take a threshold form is
a direct consequence of Lemma A.1, applied to the class of one-shot games augmented with
the continuation values associated to Markovian equilibria.
We now show that thresholds (xi,σ , xi,σ ) satisfy |xi,σ − x−i,σ |. This follows from the fact
that given an equilibrium threshold x−i,σ , then player i knows that if xi,t < x−i,σ − σ player
−i will play E, so that player i’s best reply is to play E as well. Similarly, if xi,t > x−i,σ + σ,
then player i knows that player −i will play S and her best reply is to play S as well.
1



This result highlights that asymptotically, the likelihood of actual miscoordination is
vanishing. Note that since the players’ payoffs may be asymmetric, the continuation values
associated with approximately symmetric Markovian equilibria may be quite different.
In games where payoffs are symmetric, and error terms εi and ε−i have identical distributions, Proposition B.1 can be strengthened to show that all Markovian equilibria are
symmetric.
Proposition B.2 Whenever payoff functions are symmetric, and error terms εi,t and ε−i,t
have identical distributions, there exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), every Markovian
equilibrium takes a threshold form with thresholds xi,σ = x−i,σ .
Proof:

Consider σ small enough that all Markovian equilibria take a threshold form.

Consider such a Markovian equilibrium with thresholds (xi,σ , x−i,σ ), associated with values
(Vi,σ , V−i,σ ). The proof proceeds by contradiction. Assume for instance that xi,σ > x−i,σ .
Because of Assumption 5, that staying benefits one’s partner, it follows that Vi,σ > V−i,σ .
Given that player i is indifferent between staying and exiting at signal xi,t = xi,σ and that
V−i,σ < Vi,σ , player −i must strictly prefer exiting to staying when observing signal x−i,t =
xi,σ . This contradicts xi,σ > x−i,σ , and implies that xi,σ = x−i,σ .

B.2



Time-Dependent Markovian Equilibria

Section 4 used a dynamic programming approach à la Abreu, Pearce and Stacchetti (1990)
to characterize Markovian equilibria of Γσ . The same approach can be used to characterize
time-dependent Markovian equilibria.
Definition B.1 A strategy si is time-dependent Markovian if and only if si (hi,t ) depends
only on time t and player i’s current signal xi,t .
For σ small enough, and for any pair of values V ∈

Q

i∈{1,2} [mi , Mi ], we consider the

mappings x∗σ (V), and φσ (V) defined in Appendix A.2. Recall that x∗σ (V) is the unique
equilibrium threshold of the augmented one-shot global game Ψσ (V) and φσ (V) is the value
of playing Ψσ (V) according to its unique equilibrium threshold.

2

A profile of time-dependent Markovian strategies s = (si , s−i ) is associated with the
sequence of values (Vt )t∈N = (Vi,t , V−i,t )t∈N , where Vt is the pair of values associated with
playing according to strategies s in the subgame starting at date t. A sequence of values
(Vt )t∈N is supported by a time-dependent Markovian equilibrium of Γσ if and only if, the
sequence (Vt )t∈N is bounded and satisfies the recurrence equation Vt = φσ (Vt+1 ) for all
t ∈ N. Furthermore such a sequence of continuation values is sustained by a unique perfect
Bayesian equilibrium such that players choose to stay in period t according to threshold
x∗σ (Vt ). The proof of these results is straightforward, and essentially identical to that of
Theorem 2.
In order to say more about time dependent Markovian equilibria, the rest of the section
focuses on symmetric games and symmetric equilibria. Mapping Φ can be reduced to a
mapping from R to R. Denote by US(Φ) the set of unstable fixed points of mapping Φ and
S(Φ) the set of stable fixed points of mapping Φ. The analysis assumes that all the fixed
points of Φ are non-singular.
Consider s a symmetric time-dependent Markovian equilibrium and (Vt )t∈N the associated
sequence of values. Since Vt must be bounded, we can always extract a converging sequence
converging to some value Vσ,∞ .
Proposition B.3 Pick any η > 0. There exists σ > 0 such that for all σ ∈ (0, σ), the
following hold
(i) If Vσ,∞ ∈ R \

S

V ∈U S(Φ) [V − η, V + η] then there exists V

∗

∈ S(Φ) such that

for all t ∈ N, Vt ∈ [V ∗ − η, V ∗ + η].
(ii) If Vσ,∞ ∈ R \

S

V ∈S(Φ) [V − η, V + η] then there exists V

∗

∈ US(Φ) and T > 0

such that for all t ≥ T , Vt ∈ [V ∗ − η, V ∗ + η].
Proof: The fixed points of Φ belong to some compact interval [m, M ]. Since by assumption
every fixed point of Φ is non-singular, this means that there are only finitely many of them.
Furthermore, since Φ is increasing and all its fixed points are non singular, then for every
ζ > 0, there exists k ∈ N and ν ∈ (0, ζ) such that:
• for all V ∈ [m, M ] \

S

k
V ∈U S(Φ) [V − ζ, V + ζ], Φ (V ) ∈

3

S

V ∈S(Φ) [V − ζ + ν, V + ζ − ν];

• for all V ∗ ∈ S(Φ), Φ([V ∗ − ζ, V ∗ + ζ]) ⊂ [V ∗ − ζ + ν, V ∗ + ζ − ν].
Since φσ converges uniformly to Φ as σ goes to 0, there exists σ > 0 such that for all
σ ∈ (0, σ),
(a) for all V ∈ [m, M ] \

S

k
V ∈U S(Φ) [V − ζ, V + ζ], φσ (V ) ∈

S

V ∈S(Φ) [V − ζ, V + ζ];

(b) for all V ∗ ∈ S(Φ), φσ ([V ∗ − ζ, V ∗ + ζ]) ⊂ [V ∗ − ζ, V ∗ + ζ].
This implies Proposition B.3 (i). Indeed, pick η > 0 and apply (a) and (b) above with ζ < η.
S
Since Vσ,∞ ∈ [m, M ] \ V ∈U S(Φ) [V − η, V + η], there are infinitely many times t ∈ N such
S
that Vt ∈ [m, M ] \ V ∈U S(Φ) [V − ζ, V + ζ]. By point (a) above, this implies that there exists
V ∗ ∈ S(Φ) such that there are infinitely many times t at which Vt ∈ [V ∗ −ζ, V ∗ +ζ]. By point
(b) it follows that in every earlier period, and hence in every period s, Vs ∈ [V ∗ − ζ, V ∗ + ζ] ⊂
[V ∗ − η, V ∗ + η]. This proves point (i).
We now move to point (ii). Pick the same σ as in the proof above. The fact that
S
Vσ,∞ ∈ R \ V ∈S(Φ) [V − η, V + η] implies that there exists T1 > 0 large enough such that for
S
all t > T1 , Vt ∈ V ∈U S(Φ) [V −η, V +η]. Otherwise we would be in case (i), which implies that
Vσ,∞ should be within a small neighborhood of S(Φ). Furthermore, since Φ is increasing, it
is not possible to transition from a unstable fixed point of Φ to an other unstable fixed point
of Φ without being in the neighborhood of a stable fixed point of Φ. Hence this means that
there exists T2 and V ∗ ∈ US(Φ) such that for all t ≥ T2 , Vt ∈ [V ∗ − η, V ∗ + η].



Furthermore, note that if we are in case (ii) of Proposition B.3, then for η small, the
continuation equilibrium after time T is in an arbitrarily small neighborhood of a Markovian
equilibrium that is asymptotically unstable in the sense developed in Section 4.4. This
follows from the fact that unstable fixed points of φ are associated to unstable fixed points
of ξ.
Altogether this means that a time-dependent Markovian equilibrium is either very close to
an asymptotically stable Markovian equilibrium, or is arbitrarily close to an asymptotically
unstable Markovian equilibrium sufficiently far away in the future.

4

B.3

Sufficient Conditions for Uniqueness

Theorem 2 implies that whenever the mapping Φ has a unique fixed point, then the set
of rationalizable strategies of Γσ converges to a singleton as σ goes to 0. The following
proposition provides sufficient conditions under which mapping Φ has a unique fixed point.
Proposition B.4 (uniqueness) Pick K a compact of R2 . There exists a constant η > 0,
depending only on payoff functions and K, such that whenever
(i) players have individually rational values for playing game Γ0 that belong to
K,
(ii) the distribution of states of the world f satisfies max f < η
mapping Φ admits a unique fixed point and the set of rationalizable strategies of Γσ converges
to a singleton as σ goes to 0.
Proof:

Let || · ||1 denote the norm on R2 defined by ||V||1 = |Vi | + |V−i |, and let || · ||∞

denote the sup norm. It results from Theorem 2 (iii) that
||Φ(V)−Φ(V0 )||1 ≤ β||V−V0 ||1 +||f ||∞

X

i
i
||g11
+βVi −W22
||∞

i∈{1,2}

Since

P

∂xRD ∂xRD
+
∂Vi
∂V−i

||V−V0 ||1
∞

∂xRD
∂xRD
i
i
i∈{1,2} ||g11 + βVi − W22 ||∞ || ∂Vi + ∂V−i ||∞ is finite, for any δ ∈ (β, 1), there exists

||f ||∞ small enough such that ||Φ(V) − Φ(V0 )||1 ≤ δ||V − V0 ||1 . Hence Φ is a contraction
mapping, which concludes the proof.



Intuitively, Proposition B.4 implies that when the state of the world wt has sufficient
variance, then game Γσ is asymptotically dominance solvable. Indeed, when the density of
distribution f becomes arbitrarily small, a given change in cooperation levels induces an
arbitrarily small change in continuation values, which is not enough to make the original
change in cooperation levels self-sustaining.

5

