                       ONLINE APPENDIX, NOT FOR PUBLICATION

               The Impact of Media Censorship: 1984 or Brave New World?
                                  Yuyu Chen and David Y. Yang



Appendix A Administrative & legal framework of Internet censorship
China was connected to the Internet on a permanent basis in 1994. Simultaneously with the Internet’s
arrival, the State Council of China initiated the process of its regulation. Specifically, the Council issued the
“Regulations of the People’s Republic of China for Safety Protection of Computer Information Systems” in
1994, and Article 7 of this set of regulations stipulates:1

      No organization or individual may make use of computer information systems to engage in
      activities harmful to the interests of the State or collectives, or the legitimate rights of the citizens,
      nor endanger the safety of computer information systems.

   The 1994 regulations laid the groundwork of information control over China’s cyberspace. The reg-
ulations specified that the State Council Information Office manages the implementation of information
control across various mediums, and delegated the administrative responsibility of Internet censorship to
the Ministry of Public Security, directly oversaw by the State Council and the Propaganda Department of
the Chinese Communist Party. The Ministry of Public Security further amended the regulations by issuing
the “Security Management Procedures in Internet Accessing” in 1997, specifying that “No unit or individ-
ual may use the Internet to create, replicate, retrieve, or transmit the following kinds of information: [...] (ii)
inciting to overthrow the government or the socialist system; (iii) inciting division of the country, harming
national unification; (iv) inciting hatred or discrimination among nationalities or harming the unity of the
nationalities [...]”
   In response to the beginning of foreign news outlets’ operation in China and the upcoming WTO agree-
ment, the “State Council Order No.292” issued in 2000 generated the first content restrictions for Internet
content providers, particularly with respect to domestic media outlets hosting contents from foreign me-
dia outlets. The order prevents the domestic media outlets from hosting links to foreign news outlets, or
distributing news from foreign news outlets without separate approval from the Internet regulatory bodies.
   In 2013, a new, separate administration — the Cyberspace Administration of China — was created for
the purpose of regulating Internet content and cyberspace. The administration is run by the Central Cy-
bersecurity and Information Leading Small Group, chaired by the President of China. The administration
intends to streamline the regulations of Internet across various bureaucratic bodies, and places the ultimate
control directly under the president.
  Overall, these administrative regulations and legal framework ensures that media outlets based in China
would incur severe business and political cost from publishing and circulating contents that the state deems
threatening and objectionable. As a result, contents on domestic media outlets are routinely censored and
  1 Source: http://lawinfochina.com/display.aspx?lib=law&id=12136&CGid=, last accessed on December 11, 2016.




                                                         A.1
filtered by the orders from the Propaganda Department (either ex-ante or ex-post), or self-censored during
the editorial process.
   Most recently, in late 2016 the People’s Congress of China passed the new “Cybersecurity Law of the
People’s Republic of China,” legalizing the state’s control over information flows and technology equip-
ment over China’s cyberspace, further restricting the operation freedom of foreign media outlets’ in China.
The Cybersecurity Law is set to come into effect in June 2017 (after this study concludes).
   Responding to the passing of the Cybersecurity Law as well as the broad campaign to regulate Internet
content in China, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology issued “Regulations on Internet
Connection Services” in January 2017.2 While the statement is largely vague and a reiteration of existing
policy and legal interpretations, Article 4 of Section 2 states that all connections to oversea servers (VPN is
used as an explicit example) need to be registered with the telecommunication authorities in China. It is
important to note that while this document takes the broad market of censorship circumvention tools (in
particular, VPN services) out of the legal grey zone, it by no means outlaws the provision and the usage of
such tools. In fact, this document establishes the legal status of censorship circumvention tool provides so
long as they are properly registered, and even before this particular document was issued, there are plenty
of legal, registered VPN providers in China, most of which are affiliated with state-owned enterprises.3
   The new Cybersecurity Law and the Regulations on Internet Connection Services indicate that the Chi-
nese state may begin to regulate the market of censorship circumvention tools more systematically in the
near future. Since July 2017, Apple pulled down unregistered VPN mobile applications from its App Store,
and Amazon issued tighter regulation in using its cloud service to establish VPN connections.4 However,
it is also important to note that similar “crackdown” on censorship circumvention tools took place previ-
ously, and they are often cyclical and temporary — the most recent one was in March 2016 in response to
the Annual Meetings of the National People’s Representatives.
   A critical feature of the legal framework and regulations regarding Internet censorship is that they are
almost exclusively concentrated on the Internet infrastructure, connection service providers, and content
providers. In other words, there has been little regulations related to Internet censorship that explicitly
target citizens (or, content consumers) themselves. In fact, while there have been judicial cases against
citizens, often high profiled celebrities and journalists, leading to their arrests under the charges of “actively
spreading illegal information or state secret,” “inciting social unrest and social turbulence” or “disrupting
social order,”5 there exists no reported case of charges brought against Chinese Interent users because they
privately consume contents on the websites blocked by the Great Firewall. Roberts (2018) argues that this
is because imposing fear and deterrence among citizens themselves could often lead to backlashes:

      [D]espite government efforts to signal to the public the consequences of spreading sensitive
      information online, fear-based methods of censorship do not deter much of the large online
      population in China, which is accustomed to regularly reading about and discussing sensitive
      political information. Signals that particular information is off limits do not persuade online
   2 Source: http://www.miit.gov.cn/n1146295/n1652858/n1652930/n3757020/c5471946/content.html, last accessed on August

26, 2017.
   3 Source: https://www.forbes.com/forbes/welcome/?toURL=https://www.forbes.com/sites/leonhardweese/2017/01/25/

what-does-chinas-vpn-ban-really-mean, last accessed on August 26, 2017.
   4 Source: on Apple, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/29/technology/china-apple-censorhip.html, last accessed on Au-

gust 26, 2017; on Amazon, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/01/business/amazon-china-Internet-censors-apple.html, last
accessed on August 26, 2017.
   5 Source: https://www.amnestyusa.org/search/china/, last accessed on August 26, 2017.




                                                         A.2
     users to avoid the topic. In fact, for ordinary citizens who consume and produce political in-
     formation online in China, experience with censorship and awareness of censorship negatively
     affects their opinion of the state and may even make them more likely to read and write about
     topics that are viewed by the state as more sensitive, as they are alerted to topics the Chinese
     government deems dangerous.

   In fact, officials at the Propaganda Department and the Ministry of Public Security rarely publicly recog-
nize the existence of the Golden Shield Project and the Great Firewall, making public and legal discussion of
Great Firewall bypass tools impractical. Roberts (2018) documents that there is little perceived fear among
Chinese citizens in terms of browsing politically sensitive information online. In particular, the usage cen-
sorship circumvention tools do not seem to carry a particular stigma or fear. For example, Hobbs and
Roberts (2018) find that citizens in China reacted to the sudden access block of Instagram in September
2014 by using censorship circumvention tools in order to continue their access.




                                                    A.3
Appendix B Access treatment: details

B.1 Features of the censorship circumvention tool we provide
The premium censorship circumvention tool we offer provides fast, stable, and reliable access to Internet
bypassing the Great Firewall, allowing students to visit websites that are otherwise blocked due to censor-
ship, and to consume information uncensored and unfiltered by the Chinese state.
   This particular tool features the following characteristics: (i) it combines Http proxy service with the
VPN, which means that once the students have set up the tool on their devices, they no longer need to
sign-on each time they browse the Internet — the tool is on and operating by default; (ii) the deep-tunnel
technology ensures that the service is stable and robust, even during politically sensitive times when the
Chinese government temporarily shut down certain VPN services; (iii) we aim to provide a frictionless
experiences to students who wish to use the tool, for example, the setup requires less than 1 minute and
we offer full technical support during the setup process and continuous customer services to troubleshot
throughout the experiment; (iv) students would not experience noticeable speed reduction when browsing
Internet through the tool — the tool automatically detects whether destination websites are hosted inside
or outside of China, and it only turns on when traffic reaches outside of China; hence it would not affect the
speed and experiences for browsing websites hosted domestically; and (v) the tool works on both students’
computer and mobile device (e.g. smart phone).


B.2 Translated email script to students who receive the access treatment
Dear [name],

   Thank you again for participating in the survey on “Beliefs, attitudes, preferences, and behaviors among
Chinese colleges students in the age of globalization” last month.
   We have already paid you the baseline participation fee for completing the survey via WeChat transfer.
Please contact us immediately if you have not received the payment yet.
   As we mentioned, we draw lottery winners among participants of the study. The prizes for this round
of lottery are various media subscription services, such as Youku VIP account and annual services from
XYZ.6 Congratulations! You have won the lottery prize — an 18-month subscription of the XYZ Internet
service!
   XYZ is a professional and secure Internet service (worth RMB 150 per month) that allows you to browse
Internet websites around the world without restrictions, access information in a speedy manner; and it is
a service adopted by many business enterprises and professionals in China. You can follow the instruction
below to activate the ABC service and start using it right away:
(1) Your personal account name: [username]
   Initial password: [password] (you can change the password immediately after you log in)
(2) Open XYZ’s website: [url], type in your account name and initial password, read and consent to the
user agreement, and this activates your account
  6 We conceal the actual name the censorship circumvention tool provider in order to protect the service. We replace its actual name

with XYZ henceforth.




                                                               A.4
(3) Click the “setup instruction” on the left, follow the easy instructions to setup your computer and mobile
devices
(4) Every account can simultaneously connect 2 personal devices (computer, tablets, and smart phones)
   You can learn more about the XYZ service from its website ([url]). If you encounter any problems with
setting up or using the service, you can contact the customer service personnel at XYZ directly: [email
address of XYZ customer service].
   If you have any problems or concerns with this survey, please do not hesitant to contact us at any time:
   Email: [study email address]
   WeChat: [study WeChat account]
   We wish you enjoy the XYZ service! Thank you again for participating in our 1st wave of the online
survey. We sincerely looking forward to seeing you again in the future waves of the survey!


Peking University, Guanghua School of Management
Stanford University, Department of Economics
December 2015




                                                    A.5
Appendix C Encouragement treatment: details
The encouragement treatment contains two main phases, which were sent to Group-CE and Group-AE
students simultaneously.

Phase 1: introduce blocked news outlets & highlight divergent reporting across outlets                            The first phase
of encouragement treatment does not involve monetary incentives. It introduces students to a variety of
foreign websites that are blocked by the Great Firewall that students may never hear of. For example,
we introduced the New York Times Chinese edition, the Intium (a Hong Kong based news outlet), TED
talks, etc. For each website, we provide a brief description of the website’s content, functionality, and
reputation. In addition, we present sample contents that will link students directly to the websites; for
example, top 5 articles from past week, most popular videos from past month, etc. Appendix Figure A.1
shows a screenshot of such newsletter.
    In addition, some later newsletters highlights to students that politically sensitive news events are often
reported differently between domestic news outlets and their foreign counterparts that are blocked by the
Great Firewall. For example, regarding the stock market crash in January 2016, we present headline articles
(and links) from, among others, the New York Times Chinese edition titled “Does China lose its ability to
manage complicated economic affairs?”, and from the Financial Times Chinese edition titled “Gatekeeper
cannot handle the crisis, leading the Chinese economy astray.” In particular, due to the Propaganda De-
partment’s order to censor negative reports on economic and in particular stock market performance, these
headlines represent information that students would not be able to find from domestic news outlets (even
if they think they have already informed themselves with the current economic news from these outlets).7
Appendix Figure A.2 shows a screenshot of such newsletter.

Phase 2: news quizzes with monetary rewards The second phase of encouragement treatment involves
news quizzes with monetary rewards. The goal of the quizzes is to encourage students to visit foreign news
outlets blocked by the Great Firewall — the New York Times Chinese edition, in particular.8 For example,
on the day when the New York Times Chinese edition front page features an article on underground water
pollution in China, we inform students that they should look for an article on the New York Times Chinese
edition front page on that day that covers such topic, and we ask students: (i) what percentage of China’s
underground water is reported to be polluted? — this is meant to make the question looks like a regular
quiz, and we design the question such that the answer is easy to spot as long as the students can locate the
relevant article from the New York Times; (ii) who is the author of this article — this is meant to ensure that
students need to go to the New York Times to read the original article, while search engine and re-posted
version of the articles on other platforms typically would not include the author information; and (iii) what
is the author’s one other article on the New York Times published during the past week — this is meant to
encourage students to browse the New York Times beyond the article that is related to the quiz. If students
    7 For example, according to leaked commands issued by the Propaganda Department, domestic news outlets are asked to organize

and censor their economic news content to “highlight the optimistic outlook of the Chinese economy” (September 8, 2015), and should
not report on the resignation of the National Stock Market Supervision Council chair in response to the stock market crash in January
(February 18, 2016). Source: the China Digital Times hosted by the Berkeley Counter-Power Lab.
    8 We focus exclusively on the New York Times in order to maximize the power of this encouragement treatment in terms of leading

to changes in students’ news consumption, without diffusing students to multiple outlets.




                                                                A.6
can answer all three questions correctly (via replying to email or message on WeChat), we pay the students
with US$ 2.5.
    The quizzes carry out for a total of 4 rounds.9 Other questions cover topics including wealth inequality
in China, the censorship on economic indicators, and labor unrest.10 We list each of the quiz question
(excluding the questions on article author and related articles) and corresponding news article on the New
York Times below. Appendix Figure A.3 shows a screenshot of this type of newsletter.

   1. The top 1% Chinese families in terms of income own                         % of the wealth in China; the bottom 25%
       of the Chinese families in terms of income own                     % of the wealth in China?

          • Corresponding article: “Studies Point to Inequalities That Could Strain Chinese Society” by Chris
             Buckley.

   2. Since last September, the Markit Economics (UK) and Caixin (Beijing) terminated the                                    index
       that they have been publishing every month?

          • Corresponding article: “As China’s Economic Picture Turns Uglier, Beijing Applies Airbrush” by
             Anwei Huang and Neil Gough.

   3. During January 2016, there were                     incidents of labor disputes and protests happened around
       China?

          • Corresponding article: “Labor Protests Multiply in China as Economy Slows, Worrying Leaders” by
             Javier C. Hernandez.

   4. According to the article,               companies control at least               % of Anbang’s ownership.

          • Corresponding article: “The Hidden Empire of Wealth of Anbang: Packed with the Rich and Powerful,
             Filled with Branches of Opaque Ownership” by Michael Forsythe.

   5. According to the article,               % of the tested underground water in China is level 4 polluted, and
               % is level 5 polluted.

          • Corresponding article: “Rural Water, Not City Smog, May Be China’s Pollution Nightmare” by Chris
             Buckley and Vanessa Piao.




   9 The first round of the quiz features news that is not strictly censored on the domestic media. We intentionally make this design

choice, in order to minimize the political sensitivity upfront when students are paid by the researchers to consume particular news
content. We also did not ask students about the author and other articles in the first quiz, for the same reason.
  10 All quiz questions are chosen to cover news content related to China and that are somewhat negative. We make this design choice

in order maximize the encouragement treatment’s ability to highlight content that students would be potentially interested, and are
otherwise difficult to obtain from browsing domestic news outlets alone.


                                                                A.7
Appendix D                 Outcomes elicited in panel survey
Our repeated panel survey measures 5 broad groups of outcomes of interest, as well as a rich set of demo-
graphics and background characteristics that serve as both controls and criteria for heterogeneity analyses.
We now describe each group of the survey outcomes, and present the original wording (translated) on all
questions that we ask in the panel survey, with the category numbers labeled correspondingly.


Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes (A)
Given the critical role that beliefs regarding media outlets played in the framework we present in Appendix
F, we explicitly measure participants’ attitudes and beliefs regarding media and censorship across a wide
range of domains.

Information source and media consumption (A.1) We first ask participants a set of questions related
to their information sources an media consumption. We ask participants to rank media outlets/sources
in terms of how important are they for the participants to obtain information (among domestic websites,
foreign websites, domestic social media, foreign social media, and word of mouth). We next ask students to
self-report their frequency to visit foreign websites, which would serve as an important benchmark for us
to calibrate foreign media consumption among those participants who we do not observe online activities
directly.

Purchase of censorship circumvention tools (A.2) Right before the endline survey in April 2017, we ter-
minate the free subscription of censorship circumvention tool for students in the Group-A and Group-AE.
We offered a discounted price for students in the Group-A and Group-AE to renew the subscription, and
for Group-N, Group-NE, and existing users to purchase a new account at the same price. We record the
students who actually renew or purchase the tool, and we also ask students if they plan to purchase any
other (potentially cheaper) censorship circumvention tool if they choose not to purchase the tool that we
provided.

Valuation of access to foreign media outlets (A.3) We elicit participants’ valuation of access of foreign
media outlets in two different ways. First, we ask participants to what extent they think it is valuable to
read the report on the same news event on foreign news outlet after having already read it on domestic
news outlet. Second, we use a Becker-DeGroot-Marschak (BDM) method to elicit participants’ willingness
to pay for one month’s service of censorship circumvention tool, in an incentive-compatible manner.11

Trust in media outlets (A.4) Next, we elicit participants’ level of trust towards three types of news outlets:
(i) domestic media outlets owned by the state (e.g. the People’s Daily); (ii) domestic media outlets privately
owned (e.g. the Southern Weekend); and (iii) foreign media outlets (e.g. the New York Times).
  11 We incentivize the valuation decisions in the following way. For every 100 participants of this study, we randomly pick one item

in the BDM elicitation module to implement. For participants assigned with the access treatment, we override their choice with free
provision of the censorship circumvention tool, in the case in the decision item that we pick to implement they choose cash payment
over censorship circumvention tool.




                                                                A.8
Belief of actual level of media censorship (A.5)            We ask participants to what extent do they think domes-
tic news outlets and foreign news outlets censor their news reports, respectively.

Justification of media censorship (A.6) We ask participants to what extent do they think it is justifiable
to for domestic media outlets to censor: (i) economic news; (ii) political news; (iii) social news (in particular
suicides, etc.); (iv) news related to foreign affairs; and (v) pornographic materials.

Belief regarding drivers of media censorship (A.7) Finally, we ask students what do they think is the
main driver of news censorship: government policy, media company’s business interest, media company’s
own ideology, or readers’ demand.

Calibration of news outlets’ level of censorship (A.8) We next ask participants to calibrate, hypotheti-
cally, whether domestic and foreign news outlets would censor different types of news if they take place.
Same as in A.1, the type of news spans the entire domain: positive news occurred in China, positive news
occurred in the US, as well as their negative counterparts.

Calibration of news outlets’ bias (A.9)          We ask participants to calibrate, hypothetically, to what extent
domestic and foreign news outlets would report different types of news in biased manner relative to truth,
respectively. The type of news spans the entire domain: positive news occurred in China, positive news
occurred in the US, as well as their negative counterparts.


 Note: B - included in baseline survey (November 2015); M - included in midline survey (May 2016); E - included in
 endline survey (April 2017).


 Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes
 Category A.1: Information source and media consumption
 A.1.1-5              To you, what do you depend on the most in order to keep yourself well-informed about news
                      events and important information? Please rank the following sources of information, in terms
                      of their importance to you personally. (1 = ranked bottom among five options; 5 = ranked top
                      among five options)
   A.1.1   B, M, E    domestic websites
   A.1.2   B, M, E    foreign websites
   A.1.3   B, M, E    domestic social media
   A.1.4    M, E      foreign social media

   A.1.5   B, M, E    talking with friends or classmates (direct word of mouth)
   A.1.6   B, M, E    How often do you read news and other important information from foreign websites? (1 = never;
                      2 = every month; 3 = every week; 4 = every other day; 5 = every day; 6 = multiple times a day)

 Category A.2: Purchase of censorship circumvention tools
   A.2.1      E       [For students received supply-treatment:] The free Internet service tool that you won during the lot-
                      tery after our first round of survey in November 2015 has expired. If you wish, you can purchase
                      and renew the service at a discounted price. Which service package would you like to purchase?
                      (1 = seasonal package (total RMB 90, i.e. RMB 30/month); 2 = half-year package (total RMB
                      160, i.e. RMB 27/month); 3 = full-year package (total RMB 300, i.e. RMB 25/month); 4 = would
                      purchase other VPN or http proxy service; 5 = will not purchase any service)
                                                                                                      Continued on next page


                                                             A.9
                     [For students not received supply-treatment:] [name of censorship circumvention tool provider; con-
                     cealed for IRB restriction] provides stable and high quality VPN and http proxy service; you can
                     check out the details of its service at [provider’s official website]. It offers the following service
                     packages at a discounted price. Which service package would you like to purchase? (1 = seasonal
                     package (total RMB 90, i.e. RMB 30/month); 2 = half-year package (total RMB 160, i.e. RMB
                     27/month); 3 = full-year package (total RMB 300, i.e. RMB 25/month); 4 = would purchase other
                     VPN or http proxy service; 5 = will not purchase any service)
  A.2.2       E      Have actually paid for service from the [name of censorship circumvention tool provider; con-
                     cealed for IRB restriction], directly observed from the provider’s server.

Category A.3: Valuation of access to foreign media outlets
  A.3.1   B, M, E    Willingness to pay elicited using Becker-DeGroot-Marschak (BDM) method [incentive-compatible]
                     (which of the following two options do you prefer: one month subscription of a VPN product
                     that allows you to access all foreign websites; or the amount of RMB xxx as a sure payment?)
  A.3.2   B, M, E    Suppose you have already read about a particular piece of news from domestic news outlet that
                     is privately owned (e.g. Xinjin Paper; Caijin; Southern Weekend). How much extra information
                     will you learn if you read news stories from the foreign news outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall
                     Street Journal; Financial Times) in addition? (0 = no extra information will be learned; 10 = I will
                     learn almost everything from the foreign news outlet)

Category A.4: Trust in media outlets
A.4.1-3              How much do you trust the following types of news outlets?
 A.4.1    B, M, E    domestic news outlets owned by the state (e.g. People’s Daily; Sunshine Times) (0 = completely
                     trust; 10 = completely no trust)
  A.4.2   B, M, E    domestic news outlets privately owned (e.g. Xinjin Paper; Caijin; Southern Weekend) (0 = com-
                     pletely trust; 10 = completely no trust)
  A.4.3   B, M, E    foreign news outlets (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal; Financial Times) (0 = completely
                     no trust; 10 = complete trust)

Category A.5: Belief regarding level of actual media censorship
  A.5.1   B, M, E    To what extent do you think the information published on domestic news outlets is censored
                     overall? (0 = completely uncensored; 5 = censored to some extent; 10 = completely censored)
  A.5.2   B, M, E    To what extent do you think the information published on foreign news outlets is censored over-
                     all? (0 = completely uncensored; 5 = censored to some extent; 10 = completely censored)

Category A.6: Justification of media censorship
A.6.1-5              To what extent do you think the following media censorship practices are justified? (0 = com-
                     pletely justified; 10 = completely unjustified)
  A.6.1   B, M, E    impose censorship on reporting domestic economic news (e.g. potential economic slowdown;
                     stock market pessimism; bankruptcy among small exporters).
  A.6.2   B, M, E    impose censorship on reporting domestic political news (e.g. corruption scandal, political con-
                     nections of businesses).
  A.6.3   B, M, E    impose censorship on reporting domestic social news (e.g. environmental pollution, terrorism
                     attacks, suicidal incidents).
  A.6.4   B, M, E    impose censorship on reporting foreign news (e.g. economic recovery of the US, free trade agree-
                     ments among EU nations).
  A.6.5   B, M, E    impose censorship on pornographic information/entertainment (e.g. adult entertainment web-
                     site).

Category A.7: Belief regarding drivers of media censorship
                                                                                                   Continued on next page




                                                             A.10
A.7.1-4               What do you think is the primary reason for domestic news outlets to censor their content and
                      selectively report news events? Please rank the following factors in terms of their importance (1
                      = indicator for ranked as top).
  A.7.1   B, M, E     government policies
  A.7.2   B, M, E     commercial interest of the corporate
  A.7.3   B, M, E     media company’s own ideological preferences
  A.7.4   B, M, E     readers’ demand

A.7.5-8               What do you think is the primary reason for foreign news outlets to censor their content and
                      selectively report news events? Please rank the following factors in terms of their importance (1
                      = indicator for ranked as top).
  A.7.5   B, M, E     government policies
  A.7.6   B, M, E     commercial interest of the corporate
  A.7.7   B, M, E     media company’s own ideological preferences
  A.7.8   B, M, E     readers’ demand

Category A.8: Calibration of news outlets’ level of censorship
  A.8.1     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                      think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper) would report this particular
                      event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.2     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                      development. How do you think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper)
                      would report this particular event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.3     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in the US that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                      think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper) would report this particular
                      event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.4     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in the US that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                      development. How do you think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper)
                      would report this particular event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)

  A.8.5     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                      think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal) would report this particular
                      event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.6     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                      development. How do you think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal)
                      would report this particular event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.7     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in the US that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                      think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal) would report this particular
                      event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)
  A.8.8     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in the US that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                      development. How do you think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal)
                      would report this particular event? (0 = report; 1 = not report at all)

Category A.9: Calibration of news outlets’ bias
  A.9.1     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that induced social and economic unrest. How do
                      you think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper) would report, if at all,
                      this particular event? (1 = report very positively (opposite of reality); 6 = report very negatively
                      (aligned with reality))
  A.9.2     B, M      Suppose a major event happened in China that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                      development. How do you think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper)
                      would report, if at all, this particular event? (1 = report very negatively (opposite of reality); 6 =
                      report very positively (aligned with reality))
                                                                                                    Continued on next page




                                                            A.11
   A.9.3     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in the US that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                    think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper) would report this particular
                    event? (1 = report very positively (opposite of reality); 6 = report very negatively (aligned with
                    reality))
   A.9.4     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in the US that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                    development. How do you think the Chinese media outlet (e.g. People’s Daily, Xinjing Paper)
                    would report this particular event? (1 = report very negatively (opposite of reality); 6 = report
                    very positively (aligned with reality))

   A.9.5     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in China that induced social and economic unrest. How do
                    you think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal) would report, if at all,
                    this particular event? (1 = report very positively (opposite of reality); 6 = report very negatively
                    (aligned with reality))
   A.9.6     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in China that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                    development. How do you think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal)
                    would report, if at all, this particular event? (1 = report very negatively (opposite of reality); 6 =
                    report very positively (aligned with reality))
   A.9.7     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in the US that induced social and economic unrest. How do you
                    think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal) would report this particular
                    event? (1 = report very positively (opposite of reality); 6 = report very negatively (aligned with
                    reality))
   A.9.8     B, M   Suppose a major event happened in the US that is instrumental in boosting its socioeconomic
                    development. How do you think the US media outlet (e.g. New York Times; Wall Street Journal)
                    would report this particular event? (1 = report very negatively (opposite of reality); 6 = report
                    very positively (aligned with reality))




Knowledge (B)
The next broad category of outcomes that we measure is students’ knowledge, we we aim to cover a wide
range of dimensions, both contemporary and historical, both politically sensitive and non-sensitive.

Current news events covered in encouragement treatment (B.1) We first ask participants quiz questions
on news events that are directly covered in the encouragement treatment (in particular, the quizzes with
monetary incentives). There are 4 such questions in total, and these quizzes are in the format of “true or
false” regarding a statement describing the news event, and although the cover the same news events as the
quizzes in the encouragement treatment, they do not resemble each other exactly. Note that B.1 items are
the only questions in the entire survey that directly correspond to materials covered in the encouragement
treatment — all other survey questions are not explicitly mentioned in the encouragement treatment. We
code each outcome variable as indicator of 1 if the students answer the corresponding “true or false” quiz
correctly.

Current news events not covered in encouragement treatment (B.2) We next ask participants 7 quiz
questions on news events that are not covered in the encouragement treatment. These questions fall into
2 sub-categories: (i) 4 of them correspond to news events that are censored on domestic news outlets (e.g.
the Panama Papers, and the film on Hong Kong independence that won the Best Picture in 2015 Hong
Kong Film Festival); and (ii) 3 of them correspond to news evens that are not politically sensitive and hence


                                                        A.12
are not censored on domestic news outlets (e.g. the Apple vs. FBI case, and the Taiwanese presidential
election).12 Same as the previous category, we code each outcome variable as indicator of 1 if the students
answer the corresponding “true or false” quiz correctly.

Awareness of protests and independence movements (B.3)                         We then ask participants whether they have
heard of several protest events that took place during the last decade. There are 9 of them in total. Given
that protest events are in general very politically sensitive, all these events are censored on the domestic
media outlets. They fall into 3 sub-categories: (i) protests took place in the Greater China region (e.g. the
Umbrella Revolution in Hong Kong); (ii) protests took place around the world (e.g. the Arab Spring); and
(iii) a fake protest that we make up as a placebo in order to see whether participants are randomly clicking
in this module.

Awareness of notable figures (B.4) We next ask participants whether they have heard of a range of notable
figures in mainland China or Great China region. There are 10 of them in total, and they fall into 4 sub-
categories: (i) politically sensitive notable figures are featured in recent news events since the baseline
survey in November 2015 (e.g. Zhiqiang Pu, Joshua Wong); (ii) politically sensitive notable figures are not
featured in recent news events (e.g. Xiaolin Li); (iii) notable figures who are not politically sensitive and are
not censored on the domestic media outlets (e.g. Yushi Mao); and (iv) fake names that we randomly picked
as a placebo in order to see whether participants are randomly clicking in this module.

Assessment of one’s own knowledge (B.5)                  Finally, we measure students’ assessment of their own knowl-
edge by asking students to assess their familiarity with political events, both with respect to oneself, and in
comparison with other students at the university.



 Panel B: Knowledge
 Category B.1: Current news events covered in the encouragement treatment
  B.1.1-4                Many events took place in China during the past 2 months. Below is a list of some of the events.
                         Some actually happened, and some did not. For each event, please tell us if you think it happened
                         or not. (0 = answered incorrectly; 1 = answered correctly)
    B.1.1       M        According to the latest survey, the top 1% families in China who earn the most own less than 10%
                         of the domestic wealth.
    B.1.2       M        Since September 2015, Beijing Caixin Media has terminated its monthly publication of the China
                         Purchase Management Index (PMI) index.
    B.1.3       M        During January 2016, there are more than 500 cases of labor disputes, unrest, and protests
                         throughout China.
    B.1.4       M        According to the latest study, water quality in more than half of the wells in China has met or
                         exceeded the international standard of excellence.

 Category B.2: Current news events not covered in the encouragement treatment
 B.2.1-26                Many events took place in China during the past 2 months. Below is a list of some of the events.
                         Some actually happened, and some did not. For each event, please tell us if you think it happened
                         or not. (0 = answered incorrectly; 1 = answered correctly)
                                                                                                               Continued on next page
  12 Questions in B.1 and B.2 are not repeated in the panel survey. Instead, each wave of the survey will cover new questions reflecting

the news events that take place since the last wave of the survey. Other knowledge questions are repeatedly asked across the panel
waves.


                                                                A.13
 B.2.1   B   The Shanghai Stock Exchange Index unprecedentedly dropped by 16% within 3 days. [censored]
 B.2.2   B   The tarns-continental railways across Brazil and Peru, invested by China, has been successfully
             constructed and begun operation. [censored]
 B.2.3   B   The Kuomintang candidate Lilun Zhu claimed an overwhelming lead over his competitors in the
             polls of the Taiwanese Presidential Election in dominance. [censored]
 B.2.4   B   President Xi visited the US, and reached a strategic cooperation agreement with the US regarding
             Internet policies. [censored]
 B.2.5   M   The documents leaked from the offshore financial and legal firm in Panama involved 143 politi-
             cians around the world, including the ones from Russia, Argentina, and Iceland. [censored]
 B.2.6   M   The Best Picture winner of the 2016 Hong Kong Film Festival is “Ten Years,” which depicts au-
             thoritarian Hong Kong in year 2025. [censored]
 B.2.7   M   After the New Year Eve in 2016, the “trigger and break mechanism” introduced by the former
             China Securities Regulatory Commission head Xiao Gang led to the dramatic turbulence of the
             Chinese stock market. [censored]
 B.2.8   M   Since April 2016, the English magazine “Economist” terminates its publication and distribution
             in China due to loss of profit. [censored]
 B.2.9   E   According to latest “Green Peace” report, China has achieved the full year’s steel production
             reduction target in 2016, which lessens the severity air pollution across the country. [censored]
B.2.10   E   During the 2016 US Presidential Election, the Trump Group registered a large number of trade-
             marks regarding design, restaurant, and hotel business in China. [censored]
B.2.11   E   Jianhua Xiao, a billionaire residing in Hong Kong was kidnapped by local gangs during the 2017
             Chinese New Year. [censored]
B.2.12   E   Starting from February 2016, the Xinjiang local government started to install GPS system on all
             automobiles in the region, in order to foster research and development in automated driving
             technology. [censored]
B.2.13   E   After a frozen period of 6 years, China and Norway has re-normalized their diplomatic ties, which
             led to the revival of Norwegian salmon industry. [censored]
B.2.14   E   During the last few months, the feminist groups in China has been promoting the protection of
             women’s right, and they have received warm attention and support from local government and
             relevant institutions. [censored]
B.2.15   E   In March 2017, Carrie Lam, the former Chief Secretary for Administration won the election for
             Chief Executive of Hong Kong; Carrie is the candidate who receives the highest support from the
             Hong Kong population. [censored]
B.2.16   B   The People’s Bank led measures to significantly depreciate RMB against US dollars, in order to
             stimulate export. [uncensored]
B.2.17   B   China announced to downsize its military by 300,000 at the 70th Anniversary of Sino-Japanese
             War military parade. [uncensored]
B.2.18   B   Li Ka-shing expanded his business investments in Mainland China. [uncensored]
B.2.19   B   The Nanking Massacre has been selected to the UNESCO “World Memory” list. [uncensored]
B.2.20   M   Apple Inc. actively assisted the FBI in the US to unlock the iPhone owned by the suspect of the
             2015 San Bernardino shooting. [uncensored]
B.2.21   M   Tsai Ing-wen from the Democratic Progressive Party won the Taiwan presidential election in 2016.
             The Kuomintang still maintains control of the Legislative Yuan of Taiwan. [uncensored]
B.2.22   M   The actual cause of the April 2016 Beijing Yihe hotel attack incidence is the business conflicts
             among various prostitution groups in Beijing. [uncensored]
B.2.23   E   Since February 2017, China terminated importing coal from North Korea; China is the most im-
             portant export destination for coal production in North Korea. [uncensored]
B.2.24   E   The worst H7N9 influenza epidemic in 4 years broke out in China at the beginning of 2017; 79
             patients dead in January alone. [uncensored]
B.2.25   E   The transnational railway in Ethiopia, invested and constructed by China, made its inaugural run
             in 2017; this is the only railway project China has invested in Africa. [uncensored]
B.2.26   E   The foreign reserves held by China reached record high in the beginning of 2017, which grew
             beyond the US$ 4 trillion threshold. [uncensored]

                                                                                        Continued on next page



                                               A.14
 Category B.3: Awareness of protests and independence movements
 B.3.1-10              Following are a list of events that took place around the world during the past 5 years. For each
                       of these events, please indicate whether you have heard of it before?
    B.3.1   B, M, E    2012 Hong Kong Anti-National Curriculum Movement
    B.3.2   B, M, E    2014 Hong Kong Umbrella Revolution
    B.3.3    M, E      2016 Hong Kong Mong Kok Fishball Revolution
    B.3.4   B, M, E    2014 Taiwan Sunflower Student Movement
    B.3.5   B, M, E    2014 Ukrainian Euromaidan Revolution
    B.3.6   B, M, E    2010 Arab Spring
    B.3.7   B, M, E    2014 Crimean Status Referendum
    B.3.8   B, M, E    2010 Catalonian Independence Movement
    B.3.9      E       2017 Women’s March around the world

   B.3.10   B, M, E    2011 Tomorrow Movement [fake]

 Category B.4: Awareness of notable figures
 B.4.1-10              Following are a list of notable figures in China. For each of these names, please indicate whether
                       you have heard of him/her before? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
    B.4.1    B, M      Zhiqiang Pu [sensitive, featured in recent news]
    B.4.2    B, M      Zhiqiang Ren [sensitive, featured in recent news]
    B.4.3    B, M      Joshua Wong [sensitive, featured in recent news]
    B.4.4    B, M      Zehou Li [sensitive, not featured in recent news]
    B.4.5    B, M      Guangcheng Cheng [sensitive, not featured in recent news]
    B.4.6    B, M      Xiaolin Li [sensitive, not featured in recent news]
    B.4.7    B, M      Yushi Mao [non-sensitive]
    B.4.8    B, M      Huang Hong [non-sensitive]
    B.4.9    B, M      Qiangdong Liu [non-sensitive]

   B.4.10    B, M      Lequn Jia [fake]

 Category B.5: Self-assessment of knowledge level
    B.5.1   B, M, E    How would you rate your own informedness of important political and socioeconomic issues
                       facing China today? (0 = I am completely ignorant about these issues; 10 = I am extremely well
                       informed about these issues)
    B.5.2   B, M, E    How would you compare yourself to most other students in your university in terms of your
                       informedness of important political and socioeconomic issues facing China today? (0 = they are
                       extremely more informed than me; 5 = they are about the same as me; 10 = they are extremely less
                       informed compared to me)




Economic beliefs (C)
We next elicit participants economic beliefs in an incentive-compatible manner, and their corresponding
confidence with respect to their beliefs.

Belief on economic performance in China (C.1)             We first elicit participants’ beliefs on economic perfor-
mance in China in 2016 (baseline wave) and 2017 (midline and endline wave). In particular, we ask partic-
ipants to guess the GDP growth rate in China during 2016 (baseline wave) and 2017 (midline and endline
wave), and the Shanghai Stock Composite Index (SSCI) — the main stock market index in China — as of
December 31, 2016 (baseline wave), and December 31, 2017 (midline and endline wave). Participants will


                                                         A.15
be rewarded with a bonus of RMB 5 if their GDP growth rate guess is within 0.1 percentage point of the
truth, and an additional bonus of RMB 5 if their SHI guess is within 5% window of the truth.

Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in China (C.2) We next ask participants to
evaluate their own confidence regarding the guess they just submitted with respect to the GDP growth
rate in China and the stock market performance in the Shanghai Stock Composite Index, respectively.

Belief on economic performance in the US (C.3) We then elicit participants’ beliefs on the economic
performance in the US in 2016 (baseline wave) and 2017 (midline and endline wave). In particular, we ask
participants to guess the GDP growth rate in the US during 2016 (baseline wave) and 2017 (midline and
endline wave), and the Dow Jones Index (DJI) as of December 31, 2016 (baseline wave), and December 31,
2017 (midline and endline wave). Participants will be rewarded with a bonus of RMB 5 if their GDP growth
rate guess is within 0.1 percentage point of the truth, and an additional bonus of RMB 5 if their DJI guess is
within 5% window of the truth.

Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in the US (C.4) Lastly, we ask participants to
evaluate their own confidence regarding the guess they just submitted with respect to the GDP growth rate
in the US and the stock market performance in the Dow Jones Index, respectively.



 Panel C: Economic beliefs
 Category C.1: Belief on economic performance in China
 C.1.1   B, M, E    What do you think will China’s GDP growth rate be during the entire year of [2016 (B,M) or 2017
                    (E)]? If your guess is within 0.1% of what will be announced by China’s Statistics Bureau after
                    [2016 (B,M) or 2017 (E)], then you will earn a bonus payment of RMB 5.
 C.1.2   B, M, E    What do you think will the Shanghai Stock Composite Index (SSCI) be by the end of December
                    31st, [2016 (B,M) or 2017 (E)]? If your guess is within 5% of what the closing level of the Shanghai
                    Stock Composite Index will be on the December 31st, [2016 (B,M) or 2017 (E)], then you will earn
                    a bonus payment of RMB 5. To help you better predict, note that the closing level of Shanghai
                    Composite Index on [April 30th, 2016 is 2991 (M) or March 31st, 2017 is 3223 (E)].

 Category C.2: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in China
 C.2.1   B, M, E    How certain are you regarding your guess on China’s GDP growth rate? (0 = completely uncer-
                    tain; 5 = somewhat certain; 10 = completely certain)
 C.2.2   B, M, E    How certain are you regarding your guess on the Shanghai Stock Composite Index? (0 = com-
                    pletely uncertain; 5 = somewhat certain; 10 = completely certain)

 Category C.3: Belief on economic performance in the US
 C.3.1     M, E     What do you think will USA’s GDP growth rate be during the entire year of [2016 (B,M) or 2017
                    (E)]? If your guess is within 0.1% of what will be announced by the US Department of Commerce
                    after [2016 (B,M) or 2017 (E)], then you will earn a bonus payment of RMB 5.
 C.3.2     M, E     What do you think will the Dow Jones Index (DJI) be by the end of December 31st, [2016 (B,M) or
                    2017 (E)]? If your guess is within 5% of what the closing level of the Dow Jones Index will be on
                    December 31st, [2016 (B,M) or 2017 (E)], then you will earn a bonus payment of RMB 5. To help
                    you better predict, note that the closing level of the Dow Jones Index on [April 30th, 2016 is 17651
                    (M) or March 31st, 2017 is 20663 (E)].

                                                                                                 Continued on next page


                                                          A.16
 Category C.4: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in the US
  C.4.1    M, E     How certain are you regarding your guess on USA’s GDP growth rate? (0 = completely uncertain;
                    5 = somewhat certain; 10 = completely certain)
  C.4.2    M, E     How certain are you regarding your guess on the Dow Jones Index? (0 = completely uncertain; 5
                    = somewhat certain; 10 = completely certain)




Political attitudes (D)
We then measure a wide range of attitudes that the study participants hold with respect to politics, broadly
defined. We believe that this is one of the most comprehensive political attitudes survey module that is
ever conducted among citizens in China.

Demand for institutional change (D.1)          We next ask participants to what extent do they think that the
economic and political institutions need fundamental changes in the near future.

Trust in institutions (D.2)    We next ask participants whether they trust a variety of institutions: (i) central,
provincial, and local government of China; (ii) foreign government (Japan and the US); (iii) domestic and
foreign financial institutions (e.g. banks); (iv) NGOs; and (v) court and police in China.

Evaluation of government’s performance (D.3)           We next measure participants’ evaluation of Chinese gov-
ernment’s performance in the past year, across the domain of: (i) economic affairs; (ii) political affairs; and
(iii) foreign and diplomatic affairs.

Performance evaluation criteria (D.4)        Related to D.4, we ask participants which are the most important
criteria when they evaluate Chinese government’s overall performance. Specifically, participants are asked
to rank the following criteria: (i) electing state leaders through democratic elections; (ii) maintaining eco-
nomic performance; (iii) promoting socioeconomic equality; (iv) maintaining the rule of law; (v) protecting
human rights; (vi) respecting the freedom of speech; (vii) promoting China as a global power; and (viii)
providing fairness to historical injustices.

Evaluation of severity of socioeconomic issues (D.5) We then measure participants’ evaluation of to
what extent certain socioeconomic issue is a severe problem in China today. This captures a combination
of the participants’ policy evaluation and their policy preferences. We ask participants to evaluate a total of
6 socioeconomic issues: (i) social welfare; (ii) unemployment; (iii) pollution; (iv) inequality; (v) corruption;
and (vi) discrimination against ethnic minorities.

Evaluation of democracy and human rights protection in China (D.6)              We next ask a set of questions
concerning participants’ evaluation of current status of democracy and human rights protection in China.
For example, to what extent do participants consider the Chinese government cares for the interests of the
masses (instead of the rich and powerful); what is the level of democracy in China today; what is the level
of human rights protection in China today; and how important it is to live in a democratic society.


                                                         A.17
Justification of controversial policies and issues (D.7) We next ask participants whether certain policy or
issue that is regarded as controversial is justified. We cover a total of 16 dimensions, and they fall into 2 sub-
categories, broadly speaking: (i) controversial policies currently implemented by the Chinese government
(e.g. one-child policy, and government’s use of violence to achieve social stability); and (ii) controversial
issues that are typically considered as liberal (e.g. legalization of homosexual marriage, and the legalization
of soft drug usage).

Willingness to act (D.8)        We next ask participants to what extent are they willing to act, hypothetically, in
order to: (i) battle illegal acts conducted by the Chinese government; (ii) report government misconduct;
and (iii) stand up to protect the interest of the weak.

Interest in politics and economics (D.9) We first ask participants to assess their own interests in political
events as well as economic events, separately.

National identity (D.10) We next measure participants’ national identity by asking them to what extent
are they proud of being Chinese.

Fear to criticize the government (D.11)          Lastly, we ask participants to what extent do they fear of criticiz-
ing the Chinese government (in terms of its policy or its behaviors).



 Panel D: Political attitudes
 Category D.1: Demand for institutional change
    D.1.1   B, M, E    What is your assessment of China’s current economic system? (0 = it is working great, and should
                       be maintained as it is now; 10 = China’s economic system needs fundamental changes)
    D.1.2   B, M, E    What is your assessment of China’s current political system? (0 = it is working great, and should
                       be maintained as it is now; 10 = China’s political system needs fundamental changes)

 Category D.2: Trust in institutions
 D.2.1-10              How much do you trust the following institutional bodies? (0 = completely no trust; 10 = complete
                       trust)
    D.2.1   B, M, E    central government of China
    D.2.2   B, M, E    provincial government of China
    D.2.3   B, M, E    local government of China (below provincial level)
    D.2.4    B, M      court
    D.2.5    B, M      police

    D.2.6     B, M     domestic financial institutions (banks, etc.)

    D.2.7   B, M, E    central government of Japan
    D.2.8   B, M, E    federal government of the USA
    D.2.9     B, M     foreign investors and financial institutions

   D.2.10     B, M     NGOs

 Category D.3: Evaluation of government’s performance
                                                                                                  Continued on next page



                                                          A.18
 D.3.1-3               How would you evaluate the Chinese government’s performance in the following areas during
                       the past 6 months? (0 = very unsatisfactory – performed way below my expectations; 5 = neu-
                       tral – about the level of what I expected; 10 = very satisfactory – performed way exceeding my
                       expectations)
   D.3.1    B, M, E    economic development
   D.3.2    B, M, E    domestic politics
   D.3.3    B, M, E    international and diplomatic affairs

Category D.4: Performance evaluation criteria
 D.4.1-8               We list below eight aspects of modern and developed society. Which of them should Chinese
                       citizens place greater emphasis on when they evaluate the government’s overall performance?
                       The more important an aspect is to citizens’ evaluation of the government’s performance, the
                       higher points you should allocate to it (out of 100; standardized as scale from 0 to 1).
   D.4.1     B, M      leaders are chosen by the people in universal suffrage.
   D.4.2     B, M      civil and human rights are protected and well respected.
   D.4.3     B, M      the economy is prospering.
   D.4.4     B, M      the state makes people’s income and wealth equal.
   D.4.5     B, M      rule of law.
   D.4.6     B, M      freedom of speech.
   D.4.7     B, M      exerting national power in international affairs.
   D.4.8     B, M      historical events and mistakes are handled openly and fairly.

Category D.5: Evaluation of severity of socioeconomic issues
 D.5.1-6               How severe do you think the following issue is to China today? (0 = not severe at all; 10 =
                       extremely severe)
   D.5.1     B, M      social security and welfare
   D.5.2     B, M      employment
   D.5.3     B, M      environmental pollution
   D.5.4     B, M      wealth inequality
   D.5.5     B, M      government corruption
   D.5.6     B, M      discrimination against ethnic minority

Category D.6: Evaluation of democracy and human rights protection in China
   D.6.1     B, M      For the following two statements, which do you think best describe the current situation in China?
                       Statement A: China is run by a few big interests looking out for themselves; Statement B: China
                       is run for the benefit of all the people. (0 = completely close to Statement A; 10 = completely close
                       to Statement B)
   D.6.2     B, M      How democratically is China being governed today? (0 = not at all democratic; 10 = completely
                       democratic)
   D.6.3     B, M      How much respect is there for individual human rights nowadays in China? (0 = no respect for
                       human rights at all; 10 = a great deal of respect for individual human rights)
   D.6.4    B, M, E    How important it is for you to live in a country that is governed democratically? (0 = absolutely
                       important; 10 = not at all important)

Category D.7: Justification of controversial policies and issues
D.7.1-16               We list below a few controversial socioeconomic issues. To what extent do you think they can be
                       justified? (0 = never be justified; 10 = always be justified)
   D.7.1     B, M      policies toward ethnic minorities in China
   D.7.2     B, M      Hukou policy and internal migration restrictions
   D.7.3     B, M      one-child policy
   D.7.4     B, M      Mainland China’s policy towards Hong Kong
   D.7.5     B, M      Mainland China’s policy towards Taiwan
   D.7.6     B, M      the use of violence to pursue political goals (e.g. social stability)
                                                                                                     Continued on next page


                                                             A.19
    D.7.7     B, M     state refusal of hosting refugees from neighboring countries (e.g. North Korea; Middle East)
    D.7.8     B, M     government intervenes factory production to reduce pollution
    D.7.9     B, M     college admission policies (based on Gaokao)
   D.7.10     B, M     privatization of state-owned-enterprises in critical industries
   D.7.11     B, M     legalization of homosexual marriage
   D.7.12     B, M     legalization of prostitution
   D.7.13     B, M     abortion
   D.7.14     B, M     sex behaviors outside of marriage
   D.7.15     B, M     adoption of genetically modified or transgenetic food
   D.7.16     B, M     taking soft drugs (e.g. marijuana; hashish)

 Category D.8: Willingness to act
  D.8.1-3              To what extent do you agree with the following statements about yourself? (0 = strongly disagree;
                       5 = neutral; 10 = strongly agree)
    D.8.1   B, M, E    If the government does not operate according to the law, I have the rights to disobey the govern-
                       ment.
    D.8.2   B, M, E    I’m not fearful of officials and I don’t hesitate to object to any official who has done something
                       wrong, or report his misconduct to the authorities.
    D.8.3   B, M, E    I can’t stand the powerful and influential bullying the powerless and the weak. I like to stand up
                       for the weak.

 Category D.9: Interest in politics and economics
    D.9.1     B, M     How interested are you in economics? (0 = not at all interested; 4 = not very interested; 7 =
                       somewhat interested; 10 = extremely interested)
    D.9.2     B, M     How interested are you in politics? (0 = not at all interested; 4 = not very interested; 7 = somewhat
                       interested; 10 = extremely interested)

 Category D.10: National identity
   D.10.1     B, M     How proud are you to be Chinese? (0 = not at all proud; 5 = so-so; 10 = extremely proud)

 Category D.11: Fear to criticize the government
   D.11.1     B, M     People may hold critical attitudes toward the government. If you hold critical attitudes toward
                       the government, to what extent would you be afraid of expressing your true attitudes in public?
                       (0 = not at all afraid; 5 = somewhat afraid; 10 = extremely afraid)




Behaviors and planned behaviors (E)
Next, we ask participants to self-report a range of behaviors and planned behaviors for the near future.

Social interaction on politics (E.1)        We next ask participants how often do they interact with other stu-
dents at school, particularly for politics: (i) what is the frequency that the participants talk about politics
with other students; and (ii) what is the frequency that the participants persuade other students when they
hold different opinions regarding politics and current affairs.

Political participation (E.2) We next ask participants if they: (i) have participated in protests concerning
social issues; (ii) plan to vote for the local People’s Congress Representatives in the next election; and (iii)
have complained to school authorities to protect personal interests.


                                                          A.20
Investment in the Chinese stock market (E.3)                  We then ask participants whether they are currently in-
vested in the Chinese stock market.13 If so, participants would then have an option to report to us the total
amount of fund they are currently investing, the specific stock that they are holding, etc.

Plan after graduation (E.4) We next ask participants regarding their plans upon graduating from under-
graduate studies. Specifically, participants are asked to rank the degree of attractiveness across the follow-
ing choices: (i) graduate study in China; (ii) master degree in a foreign country; (iii) PhD degree in a foreign
country; (iv) military; and (v) work immediate after graduation.

Career preferences (E.5)         Last but not least, we elicit participants’ future career preferences in two dimen-
sions: (i) sectorial preferences (e.g. civil servants, private firms, state-owned-enterprises, institutional or-
ganizations, entrepreneurship); and (ii) location preferences (e.g. Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen
tier-2 domestic cities, Hong Kong, Taiwan, foreign cities).



 Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors
 Category E.1: Social interaction on politics
     E.1.1   B, M, E     When you get together with your friends, would you say you discuss political matters frequently,
                         occasionally, or never? (0 = never; 5 = occasionally; 10 = frequently)
     E.1.2   B, M, E     When you, yourself, hold a strong opinion, do you ever find yourself persuading your friends,
                         relatives or fellow schoolmates to share your views or not? If so, does this happen often, from
                         time to time, or rarely? (0 = never, 2 = rarely; 5 = from time to time; 8 = often; 10 = always)

 Category E.2: Political participation
     E.2.1   B, M, E     Have you ever participated in protests concerning social issues (such as pollution and education)?
                         (0 = no; 1 = yes)
     E.2.2   B, M, E     Do you plan to vote for the local People’s Congress Representatives during the next election? (0
                         = no; 1 = yes)
     E.2.3   B, M, E     Have you ever complained to school authorities to protect your personal interest (e.g. regarding
                         tuition, dorm assignment)? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
     E.2.4     B, M      Have you ever participated in activities from non-profits (such as volunteer services)? (0 = no; 1
                         = yes)

 Category E.3: Investment in the Chinese stock market
     E.3.1   B, M, E     Are you currently investing in the Chinese stock market? Note: this is regarding your own broker-
                         age account that you have full control over; not including the ones co-owned with your parents.
                         (0 = no; 1 = yes)

 Category E.4: Plan after graduation
  E.4.1-5                What do you plan to do after you graduate from the undergrad study? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
    E.4.1    B, M, E     graduate school in China (e.g. direct master degree; 2+2 programs)
    E.4.2    B, M, E     master degree abroad
    E.4.3    B, M, E     PhD degree abroad
    E.4.4    B, M, E     military
    E.4.5    B, M, E     work right away

                                                                                                             Continued on next page
  13 Chinese citizens are restricted from directly investing in foreign stock market such as Hong Kong Stock Exchange or the counter-

parts in the US.


                                                               A.21
 Category E.5: Career preferences
  E.5.1-8             From the following list of job types, please pick the top 3 that appeal to you the most, and rank
                      them accordingly. (0 = not picked as top choices; 1 = picked as top choices)
    E.5.1   B, M, E   working in the national civil service
    E.5.2   B, M, E   working in the local civil service
    E.5.3   B, M, E   working in the military
    E.5.4   B, M, E   working for a Chinese private firm
    E.5.5   B, M, E   working for a foreign firm in China
    E.5.6   B, M, E   working for a state-owned enterprise
    E.5.7   B, M, E   working for institutional organizations (e.g. school, hospital, research institute)
    E.5.8   B, M, E   starting your own firm as an entrepreneur

 E.5.9-16             What is the ideal location for you, in terms of living and working in the future? (0 = not picked; 1
                      = picked)
    E.5.9   B, M, E   Beijing
   E.5.10   B, M, E   Shanghai
   E.5.11   B, M, E   Guangzhou / Shenzhen
   E.5.12   B, M, E   tier 2 cities in central China
   E.5.13   B, M, E   other cities in China
   E.5.14   B, M, E   Hong Kong / Macau
   E.5.15   B, M, E   Taiwan
   E.5.16   B, M, E   foreign cities




Demographics, background characteristics, and fundamental preferences (F)
Finally, we measure and collect a range of individual and household characteristics. These questions are
only included in the baseline survey, and are not repeated across other waves in the panel survey.

Personal characteristics (F.1)      We collect a wide range of individual demographic characteristics: gender,
birth date, height, ethnicity, hometown, hukou status, religiosity, and whether one is a member of the Chi-
nese Communist Party at the time of the baseline survey.

Educational background (F.2) We collect information on students’ track enrolled in high school (science
vs. humanities), as well as the currnt major that students study in university. We code university major as
an indicator of 1 if it belongs to the broad category of social sciences or humanities.

English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline] (F.3) We ask students regarding the tests they
have passed in domestically hosted standardized English test (Level 4, Level 6, etc.), and we code it as an
indicator of 1 if students have passed at least Level 4. We also ask students if they have taken any English
tests hosted oversea, such as TOEFL and IELTS. In addition, we ask students if they have traveled to Hong
Kong, Macau, Taiwan, or other foreign nations during the past 3 years.

Household characteristics (F.4)       We also collect a range of household characteristics that capture partici-
pants’ household background and the environment they grew up in. For example: the education attainment
of parents, the Chinese Communist Party membership of parents, and the total annual household income.


                                                         A.22
Fundamental preferences (F.5) We elicit a complete profile of participants’ fundamental economic pref-
erences, covering four dimensions: (i) risk preferences; (ii) time preferences; (iii) altruism; and (iv) reci-
procity.14 We code those so that risk tolerance, patience, and reciprocity are all coded as larger numbers.



    Panel F: Demographics, background characteristics, and fundamental preferences
    Category F.1: Personal characteristics
      F.1.1   B    What is your gender? (0 = female; 1 = male)
      F.1.2   B    What is your birth year?
      F.1.3   B    What is your height (in cm)?
      F.1.4   B    What is your ethnicity? (0 = non-Han; 1 = Han)
      F.1.5   B    Which province were you born? (0 = non-coastal provinces; 1 = coastal provinces)
      F.1.6   B    Which province did you primarily reside in prior to entering college? (0 = non-coastal provinces;
                   1 = coastal provinces)
      F.1.7   B    What is your hukou status before entering college? (0 = rural; 1 = urban)
      F.1.8   B    What is your religious affiliation? (0 = non-religious; 1 = religious)
      F.1.9   B    Are you a member of the Chinese Communist Party? [at baseline] (0 = no; 1 = yes)

    Category F.2: Educational background
      F.2.1   B    Which university are you enrolled in right now? (0 = 2nd-tier; 1 = elite)
      F.2.2   B    Which academic track did you choose in senior high school? (0 = humanities; 1 = science)
      F.2.3   B    What is your major at college? (indicator if it is social sciences or humanities)

    Category F.3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
      F.3.1   B    Which credentials hosted in China have you received in terms of your English ability? (0 = no
                   credentials; 1 = yes, at least Level 4)
      F.3.2   B    Which English exams hosted oversea have you taken (e.g. TOEFL, IELTS)? (0 = no; 1 = yes)

      F.3.3   B    Have you traveled to Hong Kong, Macau, or Taiwan during the past 3 years? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
      F.3.4   B    Have you traveled to any foreign countries beyond Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan during the
                   past 3 years? (0 = no; 1 = yes)

    Category F.4: Household characteristics
      F.4.1   B    How many siblings to do have?
      F.4.2   B    What is your father’s highest educational attainment? (0 = below senior high school; 1 = at least
                   senior high school)
      F.4.3   B    Which sector does your father work at? (if retired, which sector did he work at prior to retirement)
                   (indicator if works in government, SOE, or related public sectors)
      F.4.4   B    Is your father a member of the Chinese Communist Party? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
      F.4.5   B    What is your mother’s highest educational attainment? (0 = below senior high school; 1 = at least
                   senior high school)
      F.4.6   B    Which sector does your mother work at? (if retired, which sector did she work at prior to retire-
                   ment) (indicator if works in government, SOE, or related public sectors)
      F.4.7   B    Is your mother a member of the Chinese Communist Party? (0 = no; 1 = yes)
      F.4.8   B    How much is the total income that your household (including both your father, mother, and you)
                   earned during the past year? (Note: include salary, wage, bonus, benefits, stipend, dividend; ex-
                   clude retirement pension and other welfare payment from the government.) [number is imputed
                   from categorical choices)

                                                                                                    Continued on next page

  14 Elicitation of these preferences is based on Falk et al. (2014). We add an incentive-compatible component based on Eckel and

Grossman (2008) to their original risk preferences module.


                                                              A.23
Category F.5: Fundamental preferences
 F.5.1   B   Please tell me, in general, how willing or unwilling you are to take risks? (0 = completely unwill-
             ing to take risks; 10 = very willing to take risks)
 F.5.2   B   Certainty equivalent from step-wise lottery choices (what would you prefer: a draw with 50 per-
             cent chance of receiving RMB 300, and the same 50 percent chance of receiving nothing, or the
             amount of RMB xxx as a sure payment?)
 F.5.3   B   Eckel and Grossman (2002) lottery decisions: for the following lottery options, please choose
             one that you like the most? [incentive-compatible] (coded as higher value means preferring riskier
             options)

 F.5.4   B   How willing are you to give up something that is beneficial for you today in order to benefit more
             from that in the future? (0 = completely unwilling; 10 = very willing)
 F.5.5   B   I tend to postpone tasks even if I know it would be better to do them right away (0 = describes
             me perfectly; 10 = does not describe me at all)

 F.5.6   B   How willing are you to give to good causes without expecting anything in return? (0 = completely
             unwilling; 10 = very willing)
 F.5.7   B   Today you unexpectedly received RMB 10,000. How much of this amount would you donate to a
             good cause? (value between 0 and 10,000)

 F.5.8   B   When someone does me a favor I am willing to return it. (0 = describes me perfectly; 10 = does
             not describe me at all)
 F.5.9   B   I assume that people have only the best intentions. (0 = does not describe me at all; 10 = describes
             me perfectly)
F.5.10   B   When a stranger helps you, would you be willing to give one of the following presents to the
             stranger as a thank-you gift? (coded as higher value means choosing more valuable gifts)
F.5.11   B   How willing are you to punish someone who treats you unfairly, even if there may be costs for
             you? (0 = completely unwilling; 10 = very willing)
F.5.12   B   How willing are you to punish someone who treats others unfairly, even if there may be costs for
             you? (0 = completely unwilling; 10 = very willing)
F.5.13   B   If I am treated very unjustly, I will take revenge at the first occasion, even if there is a cost to do
             so. (0 = describes me perfectly; 10 = does not describe me at all)




                                                      A.24
Appendix E Treatment effects estimated from midline survey (May 2016)

E.1 Sample summary statistics and balance check
Overall, 1,617 participants complete the follow-up survey, implying a panel retention rate of 90.4%. Ap-
pendix Table A.2 presents the summary statistics for the overall sample who have completed both the
baseline and 1st follow-up survey (columns 1 and 2), and those for the existing users (column 3) and each
of the 4 treatment groups separately (columns 4-7), across all items in the demographics, background char-
acteristics and fundamental preferences section of the survey (Panel F) described previously. We conduct an
ANOVA test for the joint differences in means across the 4 experimental treatment groups, and we report
the F-statistics and p-value in column 8 and 9, respectively. Members of 4 experimental treatment groups
(conditional on having completed the 1st follow-up survey) are statistically indistinguishable from each
other, in terms of these characteristics examined.


E.2 Exposure’s impact on media-related behaviors, attitudes, and beliefs
We compare the average level of these behaviors, attitudes, and beliefs across the four treatment groups and
the existing users prior to treatment assignment, at the time of the first follow-up survey, one dimension
at a time. The comparison results are presented in regression estimates on non-standardized outcomes in
Appendix Table A.17, Panel A, where we also provide summary statistics across various groups of students.
   We find that Group-AE students have shifted away from domestic media outlets as important sources
of information, and substituting them with foreign media outlets and foreign social media — although
domestic social media remains as the most important source (Category A.1).15
   Echoing Group-AE students’ increased consumption of foreign media, a pattern consistent with that ob-
served with respect to students’ assessment of value added emerges. Six months after the treatment assign-
ment, students who received only the access treatment (Group-A) or the encouragement treatment (Group-
NE) hold beliefs and attitudes regarding media that remain indistinguishable from that of the students
who received none (Group-N). However, the students newly exposed to foreign media outlets (Group-AE)
have experienced changes in a broad range of beliefs and attitudes regarding media. They become: will-
ing to pay higher price for access to uncensored Internet access and more likely to perceive foreign media
outlets having high value added (Category A.3); more likely to distrust domestic media outlets in China
(either state-owned or privately-owned), and more likely to trust foreign media outlets (Category A.4); more
likely to believe that contents on domestic media outlets are censored at a heavier degree, while contents
on foreign media outlets are less censored (Category A.5); more likely to believe that it is unjustified for Chi-
nese media outlets to censor potentially sensitive economic news and political news (Category A.6); more
likely to be believe that such censorship is driven by the Chinese government’s policies, rather than media
outlets’ own interests or ideology (Category A.7); and more likely to believe that censorship is particularly
severe when Chinese media reports on negative events occurred in China, and more likely to believe that
Chinese media outlets are more biased when it reports news in China and abroad (Category A.8 and A.9).
While the existing users continue to hold beliefs regarding media that are significantly different from that
of the students who haven’t been using censorship circumvention tools yet, these newly exposed users
 15 Relatedly, they also report to visit foreign websites for the purpose of information more frequently.




                                                                A.25
in Group-AE begin to converge towards existing users — closing the gap (although not entirely) in many
belief dimensions.


E.3 Impact of exposure to uncensored information
We compare the average level of the outcomes of interest, one at a time, across the 4 experimental treatment
groups as well as the existing users prior to the treatment assignment, at the time of first follow-up survey.
The comparison results are presented in regression estimates on non-standardized outcomes in Appendix
Table A.17, Panel B, C, D, and E, respectively.

Knowledge (Panel B) First, we examine whether the exposure to uncensored information leads to changes
in students knowledge on news events that are explicitly covered in the encouragement treatment where
we distribute news quizzes with monetary rewards (Category B.1). Note that these are the only outcomes of
interest that are explicitly covered in the encouragement treatment. Across all 4 news events that we have
quizzed students in the encouragement treatment, we find that students in the Group-AE are significantly
more likely to answer these questions correctly at the time of the followup survey,16 comparing to Group-N,
Group-NE, and Group-A students, who are statistically indistinguishable from each other.17
   Moreover, we find that exposure has significantly increased Group-AE students’ likelihood of being
able to answer quizzes on other censored news events as well (Category B.2), even if these events are not
explicitly covered in our encouragement treatment. Although it is likely that students in Group-AE can
use Google to search for answers to the quizzes during the survey, we do not think this is what driving the
differences in Group-AE students’ level of knowledge. First, we intentionally do not reward students on
their correctly answer in this module to mitigate their incentives to search for answers during the survey.
Second, Group-A students have access to Google as well, yet one does not see an increase in knowledge
among them. Third, throughout the knowledge module of the survey, the time students spent on the
modules does not significantly predict their likelihood of answering quizzes correctly; on average students
spent 6.7 seconds per question. We plot the distribution of time spent and number of clicks recorded in the
knowledge module across treatment groups in Appendix Figure A.19, first among all study participants,
then for those participants who answered more than half of the questions correctly. One can see that there
is no evidence that Group-AE students spent significantly longer time or submitted more clicks during the
knowledge module, compared to other groups of students.
    This contrasts with the events that are not censored on the domestic media during the same period of
time, regarding which the Group-AE students exhibit no noticeable difference in their likelihood to an-
swer quizzes correctly. In other words, exposure leads to increased informedness in specifically defined
knowledge domain that is otherwise unavailable on the domestic media outlets.18
  16 These quizzes in the 1st followup survey cover the same material as the ones in the encouragement treatment, but in different

format.
  17 Notice that while the existing users of the censorship circumvention tools are significantly more likely to answer these quizzes

correctly as well, here we observe one of the rare cases that the newly exposed Group-AE students exhibit correction rate even higher
than that of the existing users — presumably because we have directed Group-AE students’ attention on this set of particular news
events, while the existing users might have omitted them in their regular news consumption.
  18 In other words, among the university student population in our experimental sample, those students who remain unexposed (di-

rectly) to uncensored information are not ignorant or broadly uninformed about current affairs. In fact, they exhibit a fairly high level
of informedness based on their correction rate in answering the news quizzes on uncensored events — however, they are noticeably
under-informed in the specific domains where information is censored by the government and unavailable on the domestic news
outlets.


                                                                 A.26
    Apart from news events themselves, exposure also makes Group-AE students more knowledgeable in
censored notable figures in China who are featured in recent politically sensitive events (Category B.3).19
As two placebo tests, we show that exposure induces increase in knowledge on neither figures who are
politically nonsensitive, nor a fake name that we created (“Lequn Jia”).20 Interestingly, notable figures who
are politically censored and not featured in event events remain unheard of even among the Group-AE
students. We speculate that this is because news outlets serve as crucial information portals, and the search
cost of information particularly with respect to hundreds of names that are censored by the Great Firewall)
becomes substantially higher if these names do not appear on the news outlets directly.21
    This, however, does not imply that students never go beyond current news events covered on the New
York Times to acquire uncensored information that is relatively more costly to search. In fact, we find that
students in the Group-AE are significantly more likely to become aware of a range of protests and indepen-
dence movements in the past (Category B.4), particularly those events that took place in the Greater China
region (e.g. the Umbrella Revolution in 2014).22 The increased knowledge on these events suggests that
newly exposed students may realize that if there are many current censored events whose existence they
are unaware of, there probably exist many more events occurred in the past that are also censored and hence
of which they are ignorant. As a result, we observe them beginning to explore additional websites blocked
by the Great Firewall — in particular Wikipedia, which serves as the “information portal to the past.”23
    Lastly, we investigate the impact of exposure to uncensored information on students’ meta-knowledge:
their assessment of their own level of informedness of political events in China, and their assessment rela-
tive to other students at the school (Category B.5). We find that while exposure has made Group-AE students
more likely to consider themselves as better informed of the political issues in China in the absolute term,
when they compare themselves with peers, they become more pessimistic of their own level of informedness,
believing that other students are in general more informed than themselves.24 This pattern of optimism of
other students is a more general phenomenon that we observe. We explicitly study this optimism and its
implications on students higher order beliefs and coordination outcomes in a companion paper (Chen and
Yang, 2018b).

Economic beliefs (Panel C) We find that students newly exposed to uncensored information lower their
belief regarding China’s GDP growth rate in 2016, elicited in an incenticized and private manner, by 1.3 per-
centage point (to 6.3%) where the actual growth rate is estimated to be 6.7%. This is a substantial decrease
  19 These figures are covered in news stories only available on uncensored foreign media outlet during the period between the

baseline and the first follow-up survey. For example, when the Great Firewall began to censor Zhiqiang Ren in March 2016, the
New York Times publishes an article “Critcicizing the media mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, Zhiqiang Ren becomes
censored”, which explicitly describes the censorship decision and the speculated cause of Ren’s becoming politically sensitive (source:
http://cn.nytimes.com/china/20160229/c29chinaren/, last accessed on January 14th, 2017.)
  20 Additionally, the level of awareness of Lequn is the lowest (statistically indistinguishable from 0) across all 11 names that we

measure, indicating that students are not randomly clicking during this part of the survey, and our simple binary measurement of
knowledge indeed captures some meaningful variation across the students.
  21 Similar information portal effect is documented by Athey and Mobius (2012), in the context of Google News platform.
  22 These events are always considered highly politically sensitive and are treated with tight censorship by the Great Firewall. See,

among others, King, Pan, and Roberts (2013) and Tai (2015).
  23 As a placebo, we ask students their awareness of a fake protest event that we created (“Tomorrow Revolution”) — proportion

of students who indicate that they have heard of this event is indistinguishable from zero, and we find no impact of the exposure to
uncensored information in this dimension.
  24 In particular, students who are not exposed to uncensored information (and hence are less knowledgeable in censored events)

are more optimistic about their relative level of informedness as comparing to the newly exposed students. This suggests a degree of
over-confidence among the non-exposed students, potentially also accounting for their low demand for uncensored information —
since they believe that they are already fairly informed and hence no need to obtain information from more accurate sources.


                                                                A.27
in optimism, since these students now hold growth rate belief that falls below the government’s explicit
target (6.5-7.0%), in contrast with the above-target beliefs held by the unexposed students. Moreover, ex-
posure also results in Group-AE students to lower their beliefs on the Shanghai Stock Composite Index at
the end of 2016 by 369 index points (to 2,879), where the actual closing level of the index on December 31st,
2016 is 3,104. Opposite to the increased pessimism on China, exposure has made the Group-AE students
more optimistic about the economic performance in the US: comparing to students who remain unexposed
to uncensored information, they believe a higher GDP growth rate in the US during 2016 by 1.0%, and a
higher Dow Jones Index on December 31st, 2016 by 1,247 index points.25
    In addition, we elicit and examine how exposure affect students’ confidence with respect to their guesses
on the economic performance in China (Category C.2) and in the US (Category C.4), which is conceptually
similar to meta-knowledge as in Category B.5 described above. One can see that while exposure to un-
censored information has significantly affected students’ elicited beliefs, it barely changes their levels of
confidence regarding the guesses as compared to those of the unexposed students.26

Political attitudes (Panel D)        Next, we measure a comprehensive set (a total of 11 categories) of students’
political attitudes, and we examine to what extent these attitudes are reshaped after students have been
exposed to uncensored information.
    We find that comparing to the unexposed students in Group-N, Group-NE, and Group-AE, the newly
exposed students become: more likely to believe that both the economic and political system in China need
fundamental changes (Category D.1); more likely to state distrust towards the central, provincial and local
government of China, China’s domestic financial institutions, while more likely to state a higher trust to-
wards the government of Japan and the US, as well as NGOs in general (Category D.2); more likely to be
unsatisfied with the Chinese government’s performance in economic development and domestic politics
(while unchanged in their level of satisfaction in the domain of diplomatic affairs) (Category D.3); not sig-
nificantly different in terms of the criteria that they use to evaluate government’s performance (Category
D.4); more likely to consider socioeconomic issues ranging from welfare to employment, to environmental
pollution, to inequality, to government corruption, to discrimination against minority groups to be more
severe a problem in China today (Category D.5); more likely to downgrade their rating on the level of
democracy and human rights protection in China, and more likely to believe that China is currently op-
erating in manners that fail to care for the masses (Category D.6); more likely to think that controversial
polices, ranging from policies towards minorities, to internal migration restrictions, to one-child policy, to
policies towards Hong Kong and Taiwan, to government’s use of violence to maintain social stability, to the
decision to refuse admission of refugees from the North Korea, to be unjustified; and more likely to believe
that liberal issues, ranging from legalizing homosexual marriage, to legalizing prostitution, to abortion, to
be justified (Category D.7); more likely to state that they are willing to battle illegal actions conducted by
the government, and willing to stand up to fight for the weak (although unchanged in terms of their will-
  25 We observe a pattern of anchoring when students guess the GDP growth rate in the US: since most students have no prior

knowledge on the scale of GDP growth rate in the US, many halved their guess of the Chinese GDP growth rate to form their guess on
the US growth rate — making the average guess on the US GDP growth rate to be 3.2% among our study subjects. This implies that
students while being more optimistic, they are uniformly moving away from truth growth rate, since their anchoring point on the US
GDP growth rate is considerably higher than historical growth rate, which is 1.4% in 2015.
  26 This is yet another piece of evidence suggesting that students unexposed to uncensored information may be over-confident re-

garding themselves, failed to realize their need for more accurate information sources, and hence resulting in their low demand for
foreign media outlets and uncensored information.



                                                              A.28
ingness to report government’s misconduct) (Category D.8); and more interested in political and economic
issues in general (Category D.9).27 We find that exposure does not lead Group-AE students to hold a weaker
national identity, as measured by students’ pride in being Chinese (Category D.10).
    Importantly, we do not find evidence that exposure to uncensored information has made students
slightly more fearful of expressing critical attitudes toward the government (Category D.11).

Behaviors and planned behaviors (Panel E) Finally, we investigate whether exposure to uncensored in-
formation changes students’ (self-reported) behaviors and planned behaviors for the near future. We find
that exposure has made students: more likely to engage with other students to discuss political topics (Cat-
egory E.1); more likely to pull out their investment from the Chinese stock market, although the base rate
stock market participation rate is only 5%) (Category E.3); more likely to planning on leaving China in the
near China by attending graduate school oversea (Category E.4); and more likely to prefer foreign cities
as location for future work and living, while stay unchanged in their sectorial preferences of their career
had they stayed in China (Category E.5). We don’t find strong evidence that students are actively engaged
politically (Category E.2), potentially due to the lack of opportunities.




  27 The discussion of whether students become more informed of “truth” after consuming uncensored information from foreign

media outlets requires us to take a stance on whether reports from the New York Times are closer to “truth” than the ones found on,
say, the People’s Daily. It is challenging to define “truth” in different news scenarios, particularly in domains beyond knowledge itself.
News reports from the New York Times is liberally biased (Groseclose and Milyo (2005) and (Gentzkow and Shapiro, 2010)). However,
we do believe that when students in our experiments are on average moving, for example, from rating China’s level of human rights
protection at 4.6 (fairly good) down to 3.4 (fairly unacceptable), students are indeed approaching an assessment more aligned with
truth (or reality)


                                                                  A.29
Appendix F                Conceptual framework
To clarify the factors that constrain students’ consumption of uncensored and politically sensitive informa-
tion, and to frame our experimental design, we consider a simple one-armed bandit problem that captures
students’ dynamic choice of media consumption. The framework demonstrates how media consumption
choices are affected by both the cost of accessing media outlets and students’ beliefs regarding these outlets,
and how media consumption affects students’ subsequent beliefs.


F.1 Setup
Media consumption of various news outlets Students consume media from news outlets in each period
t in order to find out whether negative events such as corruption scandals have taken place in China in
that period. These negative events are valuable signals for incumbent quality, and we assume that media
consumption generates direct payoff to students which is realized at the end of each period. The direct
payoff structure captures either the intrinsic or instrumental value from reading news report on negative
events. Intrinsically, students benefit from knowing the details of a negative event, which reflects the cu-
riosity or entertainment value of news consumption. Instrumentally, consuming news on negative events
allows students to know the incumbent’s type and hence make more informed decisions accordingly.28
    Students choose between two news outlets: the domestic news outlet (mt = D) that is directly controlled
by the state when it comes to reporting on negative events, and the foreign news outlet (mt = F) that is not
subject to the state control of China. The cost to access domestic news outlet is 0 (conditional on having
access to the Internet already), and the cost to access foreign news outlet is C                     0 per period. In particular,
if the foreign news outlet is blocked by the Great Firewall, then C > 0.
    Consuming domestic news outlet yields constant amount of earning l D in each period. For simplicity,
one can assume that the domestic news outlet never report negative events, and its payoff is independent
of its reporting. We can relax this assumption and instead assume that the payoff of domestic news outlet
is correlated with its reporting, and this would not change the result of the model.29 The consumption
of foreign news outlet yields a binary earning depending on whether the negative event is reported: high
earning (ln ) if foreign news outlet reports negative event in that period, or low earning (l∆ ) if it does not
report negative event in that period, where ln > l∆ . The probability that foreign news outlet would report
negative event is unknown to students, due to reasons such as students are unsure whether negative event
would occur at all, or whether foreign news outlet would be informed of the event and hence report it
when it occurs. The uncertain payoff of consuming foreign news outlet reflects the fact that students are
unfamiliar with such outlet as it is not allowed to operate and campaign in the Chinese market.

Government’s type, negative events, and reporting with censorship                          Suppose that the Chinese govern-
ment can be either good (g = G) or bad (g = B). If g = G, negative events would occur in each period
   28 In addition, students might benefit from knowing the “type” of negative events (e.g. economic corruption, political scandal,

environmental pollution) that take place in a particular period, which can inform them to choose corresponding actions in response to
such event. Assuming that the event type is an independent realization in each period, conditional on negative event occurring, then
students need to consume the specific news report in order to learn about the type realization (in addition to the overall knowledge of
whether negative events have occured).
   29 This turns the current model into a two-armed bandit game. According to Berry and Fristedt (1985), all two-armed bandit games

are equivalent to a one-armed bandit game where the payoff of one of the arms is degenerate to the mean of original payoff distribu-
tion.


                                                                A.30
with probability pG 2 (0, 1), and no events would occur with probability 1                             PG . If g = B, negative events
would occur in each period with probability p B 2 (0, 1), and p B > pG . When negative events occur, foreign
news outlet may either report in an uncensored or informative manner — reporting the event with proba-
bility duc 2 (0, 1], or report in a censored or uninformative manner — reporting the event with probability
dc 2 (0, 1), where dc < duc . Hence, given government’s type and foreign news outlet’s reporting scheme,
we can specify the probability of observing reports on negative events on foreign news outlet as the prod-
uct of probability of negative event occurring (p), and the probability of foreign news reporting the event
(d). Note that for simplicity, we treat all negative events as homogeneous in terms of their probability of
occurring and the probability of being reported. One can extend the model by allowing these probabilities
to differ across different types of negative events.

Beliefs on government and censorship Students have prior belief over the government’s type. Denote
belief before making t = 1 decision as µ0B 2 (0, 1), such that the probability of the government being a bad
type is µ0B , and the probability of the government being a good type is 1                    µ0B . Students also have prior belief
over foreign news outlet’s reporting scheme. Denote belief before making t = 1 decision as µ0uc 2 (0, 1),
such that the probability of foreign news outlet reports negative events in an uncensored or informative
manner is µ0uc , and the probability of foreign news outlet reports in a censored or uninformative manner is
1   µ0uc . Note that the prior beliefs µ0B and µ0uc need not be accurate with respect to the true likelihood.


F.2 Bayesian updating of beliefs on the government and censorship
Assuming that students update their beliefs in a Bayesian manner. Then after the t’th time they consume
foreign news outlet, their posterior beliefs µtB and µuc
                                                      t can be specified as the following: conditional on
observing k reports on negative events (hence experiencing the realization of high payoffs) and t                                    k times
when foreign news outlet does not report on negative events (hence experiencing the realization of low
payoffs) out of the t draws,

                            µ0B µ0uc ( p B duc )k (1    p B duc )t k + µ0B (1   µ0uc )( p B dc )k (1     p B dc )t k
         µtB =
                 µ0B µ0uc ( p B duc )k (1 p B duc )t k + µ0B (1 µ0uc )( p B dc )k (1       p B dc )t k
                     + (1 µ0B )µ0uc ( pG duc )k (1 pG duc )t k + (1 µ0B )(1                µ0uc )( pG dc )k (1         p G dc )t k


                          µ0B µ0uc ( p B duc )k (1     p B duc )t k + (1    µ0B )µ0uc ( pG duc )k (1     pG duc )t k
         µuc
          t =
                 µ0B µ0uc ( p B duc )k (1 p B duc )t k + µ0B (1 µ0uc )( p B dc )k (1        p B dc )t k
                     + (1 µ0B )µ0uc ( pG duc )k (1 pG duc )t k + (1 µ0B )(1                 µ0uc )( pG dc )k (1        p G dc )t k

Notice immediately that without consuming foreign news outlet, students would not have the opportunity
to update their beliefs regarding its probability of reporting negative events. In addition, consider the case
when t = k = 1 (namely, after having observed the negative event reporting during the 1st period), µ1B (r1 =
b) > µ0B , and µ1uc (r1 = b) > µ0uc — beliefs in both dimensions are updated upward. Correspondingly,
students shift up their beliefs on the value of foreign media.
    Then, students’ predicted probability of observing reports on negative events and hence receiving high




                                                                 A.31
payoff from foreign news outlet in period t at the beginning of the period is:

           qt 1 (µtB 1 , muuc    B G uc c
                           t 1; p , p , d , d )
         =µtB 1 µuc   B uc   B
                 t 1 p d + µ t 1 (1       µuc     B c
                                           t 1 ) p d + (1            µtB 1 )µuc   G uc
                                                                             t 1 p d + (1   µtB 1 )(1     µuc   G c
                                                                                                           t 1)p d


F.3 Media consumption choices
We consider the case of an infinite period game (t = 1, 2, 3, ...), and students discount each period’s payoff
by b 2 (0, 1). u(mt = F ) 2 {u(lb      C ), u ( l ∆      C )} is the per period utility from the consumption of foreign
news outlet (net of cost to access C), and u(mt = D ) = u(l D ) is the per period utility from the consumption
of domestic media outlet.
   A decision rule of media consumption choices is a sequence M = (m1 , m2 , ...) of functions adapted to the
observations; that is, mn may depend on past actions and observations (namely, past payoff realizations):
mn (m1 , u(m1 ), m2 , u(m2 ), ..., mn 1 , u(mn 1 )). To abuse the notation, we use mn to denote both the function
of past actions and observations, as well as the media consumption choices made at stage n.
   For each student, she seeks to find a decision rule M to maximize her expected total discounted return
from media consumption V ( M):

                                                                                    •
                                          max         V ( M ) = E µB ,µuc Â bt 1 u(mt )
                                    M=(m1 ,m2 ,...)                      0    0
                                                                                    t =1

   We now present 2 propositions that are derived following the theorems on k-armed bandit problem (Berry
and Fristedt, 1985).

Proposition 1    If it is initially optimal to choose domestic news outlet in the sense that sup M V ( M ) = V ⇤ =
                                                                                                                   u(l D )
sup{V ( M ) : M such that m1 = D }, then it is optimal to choose domestic news outlet always and V ⇤ =              1 b .


Proof For a given e > 0, find a decision rule M such that m1 = D and V ( M )                  V⇤        e. Then,

                                                                             •
                                V ( M) = u(l D ) + bE µB ,µuc ( Â bt 2 u(mt )| M)
                                                                 0   0
                                                                             t =2
                                                                               •
                                          = u(l D ) + bE µB ,µuc ( Â bt 1 u(mt+1 )| M)
                                                                 0   0
                                                                             t =1
                                                                               •
                                          = u(l D ) + bE µB ,µuc ( Â bt 1 u0 (mt )| M1 )
                                                                 0   0
                                                                             t =1
                                                  D          ⇤
                                           u(l ) + bV

where M1 = (m2 , m3 , ...) is the decision rule M shifted by 1, and u0 (mt ) = u(mt+1 ). Thus, we have V ⇤                   e
                                          u(l D )+e                                          u(l D )
u(l D ) + bV ⇤ , or equivalently, V ⇤                                                    ⇤
                                            1 b . Since e > 0 is arbitrary, this implies V  1 b , but this value
is achievable by choosing mt = D for all t. ⌅

   In other words, given the primitives and students prior beliefs µ0B and µ0uc , if at any period it becomes
optimal for a student to consume domestic news outlet, then it is optimal for him to keep consuming do-


                                                             A.32
mestic news outlet thereafter. This implies that if there exists an optimal rule M ⇤ for the media consumption
choice problem, then there exists an optimal rule with the property that every period of the consumption
of domestic news outlet is followed by another period of domestic news outlet consumption. Thus, stu-
dents only need to decide on the time to switch from foreign news outlet to domestic news outlet, which
relates this decision rule to a stopping rule problem in which the stopping time is identified with the time
of switching from foreign to domestic news outlet.
    As a corollary, we show that there exists an optimal rule for this problem of media consumption choices.
It is either the rule that chooses domestic news outlet at all stages, or the rule corresponding to the stopping
rule N      1 that is optimal for the stopping rule problem with payoff:

                                                            N                                           •
                                            VN = Â bt 1 u(mt = F ) + u(l D )                           Â bt 1
                                                        t =1                                      t = N +1


Proposition 2 Let W denote the optimal rate of return for consuming foreign news outlet, where

                                                                      E µB ,µuc ÂtN=1 bt 1 u(mt = F )
                                                                           0   0
                                                    W = sup
                                                                N 1                  ÂtN=1 bt 1

Then domestic media outlet is chosen initially, if and only if W  u(l D ).


Proof By Proposition 1, we may restrict attention to decision rule M specified by a stopping time N which
represents the last time that mt = F is chosen. The payoff with stopping time N is E µB ,µuc (ÂtN=1 bt 1 u(mt =
                                                                                                                              0   0
                                                                          u(l D )
F ) + u(l D ) Â•
               t = N +1 b
                          t 1 ), which for N = 0 is
                                                    1 b . Therefore, domestic news outlet (D) is optimal initially
if and only if, for all stopping rules N                        1,

                                                N                                             •
                                                                                                                    u(l D )
                                E µB ,µuc ( Â bt 1 u(mt = F ) + u(l D )                       Â bt 1 )  1
                                    0   0
                                             t =1                                           t = N +1
                                                                                                                         b

which is equivalent to,

                                                    N                                                         N
                                   E µB ,µuc ( Â bt 1 u(mt = F ))  u(l D )E µB ,µuc ( Â bt 1 )
                                        0   0                                                       0   0
                                                t =1                                                         t =1

which is equivalent to,

                                                E µB ,µuc (ÂtN=1 bt 1 u(mt = F ))
                                                        0   0
                                                                                                   u(l D )
                                                            E µB ,µuc (ÂtN=1 bt 1 )
                                                                 0    0

which is equivalent to W  u(l D ).30 ⌅

    It then follows that given p B , pG , duc , dc , l D , lb , l∆ , C, b, and assuming that u(·) follows CRRA structure,
there exists µ0B⇤ 2 (0, 1) and µ0uc⇤ 2 (0, 1) such that W(µ0B⇤ , µ0uc⇤ ) = u(l D ). W(µ0B⇤ , µ0uc⇤ ) is called the
Gittins index for foreign media consumption, representing the indifference condition such that students are
indifferent between starting off with consuming foreign news outlet and choosing domestic media outlet
  30 W is called the Gittins index for risky arm in the literature on armed bandit model.




                                                                                    A.33
all the time. Therefore, for any µ0B 2 (0, 1) and µ0uc 2 (0, 1) such that µ0B µ0uc < µ0B⇤ µ0uc⇤ , students chooses to
consume domestic media outlet in all periods.
    In particular, we want to highlight the case of which µ0B and µ0uc are in the range such that M⇤ =
( D, D, D, ...) when C = 0 (given p B , p B , duc , dc , l D , lb , l∆ ). In this scenario, students wouldn’t find foreign
news outlet appealing enough to consume even when the cost is brought down to zero. However, once
these beliefs are moved sufficiently upward (via external forces out of the equilibrium path), students may
start to consume foreign news outlets and such behaviors would persist: M⇤ = ( F, F, F, ...).


F.4 Predictions of experimental outcomes
In the framework that we just describe, there are 3 potential factors that prevent students from choosing
foreign news outlet. Each factor generates testable predictions, which guide our experimental design in
order to distinguish which is the relevant factor that prevents students from consuming foreign news outlet
and the uncensored information hosted on the outlet.
    First, the foreign news outlet is costly (C) — in other words, the supply of uncensored information is
restricted. If this is the relevant factor, when we provide students with free access to foreign news outlet,
reducing C to zero, students would increase their consumption of foreign news outlet. Second, the payoff of
foreign news outlet is low even when it reports negative events (ln ) — in other words, students inherently
do not value foreign news outlet. If this is the relevant factor, when we boost the value of consuming
foreign news outlet, students would increase their consumption. Importantly, once we stop increase the
value, students’ consumption of foreign news outlet would revert back. Third, students hold low belief
that foreign news outlet would report negative events (µ0uc ) — in other words, students underestimate the
value of foreign news outlet in terms of its reporting negative events. If this is the relevant factor, when we
temporarily boost the value of consuming foreign news outlet, students would increase their consumption
during those periods and update their beliefs on the value of foreign news outlet upward. This would lead
to an increase in consumption of foreign news outlet even when the temporary boost in value ends.
    The access treatment provides free access to uncensored Internet, which reduces C to zero. The encourage-
ment treatment provides encouragement for students to consume uncensored Internet (e.g. offering small
incentives for students to visit NYTimes China), which generates additional reporting draw(s) of the foreign
news outlet that students can observe and update their beliefs, prior to them making media consumption
decisions at t = 1.

Proposition 3           Suppose that µ0B and µ0uc are in the range such that M⇤ = ( D, D, D, ...) when C = 0 (given
pB , p   B   , d , d , l , lb , l∆ ). Then we have the following predictions of the experimental treatment effect:
                uc  c   D


   • Group-C: remain at M⇤ = ( D, D, D, ...) , and µtB and µuc                       B      uc
                                                            t remain unchanged from µ0 and µ0 for all t;
         this is the status quo.

   • Group-A: remain at M⇤ = ( D, D, D, ...) , and µtB and µuc                              B       uc
                                                                 t remain unchanged from µ0 and µ0 for all
     t; this is because given the belief µ0B and µ0uc , students wouldn’t find foreign news outlet appealing
         enough to consume even when the cost is brought down to zero.

   • Group-CE: remain at M⇤ = ( D, D, D, ...) , and µtB and µuc                       B      uc
                                                             t remain unchanged from µ0 and µ0 for all t;
         this is because if the student is not willing to consume foreign news outlet in t = 1 (despite the fact that


                                                          A.34
  it would yield payoff of at least l∆ , as well as the indirect payoff from learning/exploration of foreign
  news outlet’s payoff structure), then just the learning/exploration motive (namely, with zero direct
  payoff at that period) is not going to be sufficient for the student to purchase the additional signal
  at cost C > 0 prior to making her first media consumption decision. Without seeing the additional
  signals, students’ prior belief µtB and µuc
                                           t will not be updated.

• Group-AE: students would opt in for the additional payoff signals (since it is now freely available,
  the learning value of the signal is weakly positive, and there is no opportunity cost of doing so).
  When the true government type is bad and foreign news outlet reports negative events in uncen-
  sored/informative manner, if p B duc is high or if the string of signals is sufficiently long, the probability
         0               0                                    0        0
  that µ0B > µ0B and µ0uc > µ0uc approaches to 1 (where µ0B and µ0uc are the posterior beliefs after having
                                                                                                   0   0
  observed the additional signals brought by the encouragement treatment). Therefore, µ0B µ0uc can be
  moved sufficiently upward such that M⇤ = ( F, F, F, ...) . In particular, if we hand pick the signals to
  be the ones that reveal high payoffs of foreign news outlets, then the total number of signals needed
  to move µ0B µ0uc above the threshold such that M⇤ = ( F, F, F, ...) is small.




                                                   A.35
Appendix G            Habit formation & rational addiction of media consump-
                      tion
While we think the framework of one-armed bandit model is consistent with the persistent increase in
demand for and consumption of uncensored information that we observe, our experiment is not explic-
itly designed to distinguish this belief-driven model (through learning) from other models. In particular,
preference-driven models such as habit formation would also generate such pattern in consistent increase
in media consumption, so long as there is intertemporal complementarity in such consumption.
   While it is empirically difficult to explicitly distinguish between these belief-driven and preference-
driven models, we provide suggestive evidence that the pattern we observe is unlikely to be driven by a
particular form of habit formation — rational habit formation (or, rational addition) where agents anticipate
benefits from habituation stocks and internalize the intertemporal complementarity when making decisions
(Becker and Murphy, 1988; O’Donoghue and Rabin, 2001).
   A key prediction of such model is that when agents are made aware of future increase in cost of con-
sumption on goods that embodies intertemporal complementarity, they would decrease initial consump-
tion to avoid building habituation stocks anticipating that they may switch consumption behavior at the
time when cost increases. When we distribute the access treatment, we inform a random half of the Group-
AE students that the service will expire in 18 months, while for the other random half we do not make the
expiration date explicit. The expiration date information is also saliently displayed at the students’ online
account management portal. One addition reason we made such design choice is that we want to have
more flexibility in varying the service ending time of a subsample of the Group-AE students to elicit to
what extent are they willing to buy back the service on their own. For those students who are informed of
the service expiration date, it may become salient to them that there will be a future increase in the cost of
consuming uncensored information, as we will terminate the free account subsidy.
   As shown in Appendix Figure A.20, we find no evidence that informing service expiration date makes
students less likely to adopt or use the service when it was first assigned to them. In addition, we see no
noticeable pattern of these students gradually decreasing their consumption of uncensored information as
the explicitly stated service expiration date draws close.
   We fully acknowledge that this is a weak test of rational addiction model, because we do not explicitly
measure students’ expectation of future cost of consumption of uncensored information, and there may be
many reasons to speculate that the treatment of revealing service expiration date may not be able to induce
changes in anticipated cost. For example, if students never expect to purchase the tool after the 18-month
experiment anyways, the termination of service should not affect their anticipated cost at all.




                                                    A.36
Appendix H              Social transmission of information
To quantify the rate of social transmission of uncensored information within the network of university
dorms, we estimate a simple social learning model.

Model We consider the probability that a student i can correctly answer a quiz question on a politically
sensitive event j as the sum of: the probability that she learns the event from browsing foreign news outlets
herself (direct learning); and (ii) the probability that she learns about the event from her roommates who
have learned about the event (social learning).
   Specifically, we formulate the following linear probability model:
                      ✓                        ◆
             Correctij Ii (own), Ni (roommate)
                                 ✓                                                ◆ Ni ✓                                   ◆3 Ni
           =a j + Ii · p j + 1       (a j + p j )(1   q j,Ii ) + (1   aj   pj )            a j (1   h j,Ii ) + (1   aj )


where Ii (own) 2 {0, 1} indicates whether a student has access to uncensored information herself and ac-
tively browses foreign news outlets (it equals 1 if a student is in the AE group or is an existing user); and
Ni (roommate) 2 {0, 1, 2} denotes the number of roommates who have access to uncensored Internet. Al-
most no study participants reside in dorms where all 3 roommates have received the access treatment. We
hence top-code Ni (roommate) at 2.
   The first term, a j , is a “base-rate” learning probability. It accounts for the fact that the probability of
correctly answering the quiz questions is not zero even among students with neither direct access to un-
censored information themselves nor roommates who have direct access. For the binary quiz questions,
students have a 50% chance of answering the question correctly if they submit a random answer, which
is absorbed by a j . Moreover, a j captures learning about the events from information sources other than
foreign news outlets, as well as social transmissions beyond the roommate network.
   The second term, Ii · p j , indicates the marginal increase in the probability of correctly answering the quiz
questions if a student has access to uncensored Internet herself and actively browses foreign news outlets.
The rate of direct learning is captured by p j , and we allow it to vary across different news events (subscripted
j) to reflect the fact that some events may be able to attract more attention. We don’t, however, allow p j to
differ between existing users and students who have recently adopted the service, because empirically, we
find their estimated rate of direct learning to be statistically indistinguishable from each other.
   The remaining term describes social learning. In particular, it equals 1 minus the probability that a stu-
dent has not learned about the event from any of her roommates, either because the informed roommate
fails to pass on the information or the roommate is not informed herself in the first place. The parameter
q j,Ii captures the rate of social transmission of knowledge from a roommate who has access to uncensored
information herself and actively browses foreign news outlets, while h j,Ii captures that from a roommate
who does not have access or do not actively browse foreign news outlets. We allow q j,Ii and h j,Ii to differ
between students i’s who have direct access themselves and those who don’t.
   The model makes two important assumptions about the social learning structure. First, we assume that
becoming informed of a censored news event is an absorbing state, such that learning from one roommate



                                                                 A.37
versus multiple roommates exhibits the same empirical outcome because our quiz outcomes are binary.
Second, we assume there exists only one degree of social transmission, in the sense that if a student without
direct access becomes informed, she does not pass the information on to other uninformed students. This
implies that the average level of knowledge among roommates is not necessarily in equilibrium. We think
this is a reasonable assumption, given the small size of the dorm rooms, and the existing evidence that
higher degrees of information transmission on college campuses is extremely limited (Mobius, Phan, and
Szeidl, 2015).

Identification In order to identify the parameters of interests, we need to make an additional assumption
that there is no information transmission from students who do not have direct access to uncensored In-
ternet, since q j,Ii is not separately identifiable from h j,Ii given that the total number of roommates is fixed.
Notes that this assumption is conservative when we evaluate the marginal contribution of having one ad-
ditional student to receive access to uncensored Internet. If h j,Ii > 0, each additional student with access
to uncensored Internet would crowd out part of the spillover she would have made if she did not have the
access. Hence, the externality she generates through social transmission of information once she receives
access would be underestimated.
   We exploit the experimental variations in both Ii and Ni to identify the 4 key parameters: a j , p j , q j,Ii =0 ,
and q j,Ii =1 . We jointly estimate the 4 model parameters, using the subsample of students who have either 0
or 1 roommate assigned to the access treatment. This allows us to reduce the model to a linear structure. In
addition, we restrict the estimation sample to students with 0 roommates using censorship circumvention
tools prior to the experiment. Since existing users are excluded from the treatment assignment, students
with roommates who are existing users would have a lower probability of having additional roommates
receiving the access treatment.
   Under the assumption that h j,Ii = 0, and in the cases of Ni = 0 or 1, the social transmission rate q j,Ii
reduces to a linear structure:✓                         ◆
                    Correctij Ii (own), Ni (roommate)       = a j + Ii · p j + Ni · ((a j + p j )q j,Ii )

   Hence, we can exploit the experimental variations in both Ii and Ni to identify the 4 key parameters: a j ,
p j , q j,Ii =0 , and q j,Ii =1 from the regression coefficients of the reduced form analyses as follows. We regress
whether students correctly answer quizzes on Ii , Ni , and Ii ⇥ Ni ,
                               ✓                         ◆
                      Correctij Ii (own), Ni (roommate) = a + bIi + cNi + dIi ⇥ Ni

where the corresponding estimated regression coefficients are â, b̂, ĉ, and d.ˆ
   Then we can back out the model parameters of interest as follows:

   • Base-rate learning: a j = â;

   • Direct learning rate: p j = b̂;
                                                                        ĉ
   • Social transmission rate (receiver with access): q j,Ii =0 =           ;
                                                                      â+b̂

                                                                             dˆ
   • Social transmission rate (receiver without access): q j,Ii =1 =             .
                                                                           â+b̂




                                                       A.38
Out-of-sample tests   Finally, we examine how well the calibrated model performs out-of-sample. Based
on the model parameters estimated above, we predict the percentage of students who answer quiz ques-
tions correctly among those with 2 or more treated roommates, a subsample not used for our model estima-
tion. We present the predictions for the news events with lowest, median, and higest direct learning rates,
as well as the overall percentage of quizzes correctly answered in Table 4, Panel C, where we also show the
bootstrapped standard errors and the actual percentage of students who correctly answer the quiz ques-
tions in the corresponding subgroup. We show results from the out-of-sample prediction exercises for all 11
news events in Table A.15, Panel C. One can see that the prediction errors remain smaller than 0.020 across
8 of 11 sensitive news events dimensions, indicating that the stylized model performs fairly well in terms
of predicting students’ knowledge on sensitive news events.




                                                   A.39
Appendix I          Simulations of ability to correctly answer quiz on the Panama
                    Papers
We now simulate the percentage of students in the entire student population who are able to correctly an-
swer quiz on the Panama Papers, as the percentage of students who have access to uncensored information
and are actively browsing foreign news outlets changes. Note that due to the nature of the binary quiz
responses, students have a 50% chance of being able to answer the quiz correctly even if clicking randomly.
One should benchmark this in order to infer the underlying true knowledge of the news events as measured
by the quiz.
   Our baseline simulation procedure is described as follows:

   • We assume there are 10,000 students in the population (the size of undergraduate population at the
     elite university where we conduct the experiment, and the average size of many universities in China);
     and there are 2,500 dorm rooms with 4 students per room. For each student in the simulated popula-
     tion, we assign him to a particular dorm room and identify 3 other students who reside with him.

   • We simulate the diffusion process of access to uncensored information across the student population,
     as the number of students with access grows from 0 to 10,000. We divide the diffusion into two phases.
     In the 1st phase, when the total number of students with access and actively browse uncensored
     information is below 2,100 (estimated amount of students who purchased tools to bypass censorship
     prior to the experiment), we calibrate the dorm-level clustering rate that we observe based on the
     survey: among these existing users, the chance that the next student who adopts the access is residing
     in a particular dorm room with existing users is 12 times higher than the chance that she is residing
     in a dorm room with no existing users. In the 2nd phase, in the baseline simulation, we assume that
     beyond the 2,100 existing users, each of the newly adopted student is randomly distributed across the
     dorm rooms (hence no clustering structure among them).

   • For each student i 2 {1, ..., 10, 000}, we can trace her Ii (own) and Ni (roommate) as the number of
     students in the university with access to uncensored information grows from 0 to 10,000.

   • For each student i, we first predict the probability that she could answer quiz on the Panama Papers
     if she only learns from foreign news outlet directly, which is given by a j + p j Ii (own), where a j =
     0.560, p j = 0.333. We randomly generate a draw from a Bernoulli distribution with mean equals to
     this probability for the corresponding student i, as indicator of whether she has correctly answered
     the quiz due to direct learning.

   • For each student i, we then calculate the number of roommates that she has who have learned about
     the Panama Papers (namely, being able to correctly answer the quiz). We next calculate the proba-
     bility that these informed roommates who have direct access to foreign news outlets would transmit
     such knowledge to student i, following the social learning model described in Section 5.2. We then
     calculate the overall learning probability allowing for first degree of social transmission, by add the
     probability of social transmission to the direct learning probability a j + p j Ii (own) calculated above.
     We randomly generate a draw from a Bernoulli distribution with mean equals to this probability for
     the corresponding student i, as indicator of whether she has correctly answered the quiz.


                                                    A.40
   • This allows us to trace whether she can correctly answer quiz on the Panama Papers as the number
     of students with access grows from 0 to 10,000. We then aggregate all students and calculate the
     proportion of students in the entire student population who have correctly answered the quiz, as the
     key outcomes of interest for the simulation.

   The simulated proportions of students being able to correctly answer quiz on the Panama Papers are
shown in Figure 4, where we label 4 key proportion of students who have access to uncensored informa-
tion and actively browse foreign news outlets: (i) 21.0% — the proportion of existing users, who purchase
tools to bypass censorship at the status quo price; (ii) 23.5% — the proportion of students who have access
to uncensored information, if we reduce the price of tools to bypass censorship to zero among all students;
(iii) 71.7% — the proportion of students who would regularly browse foreign news websites to acquire
uncensored information, if we reduce the price to access to zero, and provide all students with the encour-
agement treatment that we have distributed; and finally, (iv) 57.7% — the proportion of students who would
regularly browse foreign news websites to acquire uncensored information, once we have raised their de-
mand through the encouragement treatment, but stop fully subsidizing their censorship circumvention tool
subscription.

Robust to alternative model parameters       The key simulation outcomes are robust to calibrating the social
learning model with alternative parameters. In particular, in Appendix Figure A.21, we show that the
simulated knowledge on the Panama Papers does not qualitatively change under the following alternative
counterfactual scenarios: (i) if the rate of direct learning doubles; (ii) if the rate of social transmission of
knowledge is zero; and (iii) if the rate of social transmission of knowledge doubles.

Robust to alternative diffusion process and social learning environment         The key simulation outcomes
are also robust to imposing alternative diffusion process of the access tool across the student population,
as well as alternative social learning environment that the students may face. In particular, in Appendix
Figure A.22, we show that the simulated knowledge on the Panama Papers does not qualitatively change
under the following alternative counterfactual scenarios: (i) if the diffusion of access to uncensored infor-
mation follows the same clustering structure beyond the initial 2,100 existing users; (ii) if the diffusion of
access to uncensored information targets new dorm rooms first (namely, prioritize each dorm to have at
least one student with access); (iii) if the number of students in each dorm doubles (to eight students); and
(iv) if second degree social transmission is allowed.

Robust to alternative social network structure       Finally, we show that the key simulation outcomes are
robust to incorporating the full conversation networks among the university students. Due to the design
limitation of our experiment, we do not have a complete mapping of the actual friendship and conversation
networks among the university students from whom our study participants are recruited. Instead, we use
the conversation networks mapped among Harvard undergraduates, by Mobius, Phan, and Szeidl (2015).
The conversation networks, rather than friendship networks, play a dominant role of information trans-
mission among university students. The average size of conversation networks is 12.60, and an average
student has 3.19 conversation links. Note that these links are not necessarily bilateral. We conduct an al-
ternative simulation where we construct conversation networks of 13 students, and estimate the total share



                                                     A.41
of students who would be correctly answering the quiz on the Panama Papers from direct learning or so-
cial transmission of information from other students who are connected in the corresponding conversation
networks. We use the same direct learning rate and the rate of social transmission of information estimated
from our baseline specification. We assume that the access tool diffusion process is clustered across the
conversation networks with the same rate as in the baseline simulation specification. For this part of the
simulation, we reduce total students count from 10,000 to 1000 in order to save computational time.
   In Appendix Figure A.23, we present simulation results varying the average conversation links that a
student possesses, from 1 link to 13 links (out of 13 students in the conversation networks). As the average
number of conversation links increases, the conversation networks become denser and more connected. We
find that the baseline simulation results are quantitatively very similar to the alternative simulation where
students possess on average 3 conversation links, the actual amount among Harvard undergraduates. In
fact, our result is robust even if we double the number of conversational links a student may have.




                                                    A.42
Appendix figures and tables




                              A.43
Figure A.1: Screenshot of newsletter from encouragement treatment – phase 1 (introduce students to
blocked foreign outlets).




                                              A.44
Figure A.2: Screenshot of newsletter from encouragement treatment – phase 1 (highlight divergent report-
ing across media outlets).




                                                 A.45
Figure A.3: Screenshot of newsletter from encouragement treatment – phase 2 (news quizzes with monetary
rewards).




                                                 A.46
                           .7               Unincentivized          Incentivized
                                            encouragement          encouragement
                                                period                 period




             Cumulative activation rate




                  .4        .5        .6

                           .3



                           .2
                                           2016-01       2016-02       2016-03       2016-04      2016-05

                                                             Access                Access + Encour.



Figure A.4: Cumulative rate of activating censorship circumvention tool over time, among students who
received only the access treatment (Group-A) and those who received both access and encoruagement treat-
ments (Group-AE). Activation is an indicator equals 1 if students install the tool and use it at least once.
Group-A students receive reminder to activate the tool at the same time of the Group-AE students receive
encouragment treatment newsletters.




                                                                       A.47
              1                                                    1



              .8                                                   .8



              .6                                                   .6



              .4                                                   .4



              .2                                                   .2



              0                                                    0
                   0       1         2        3       4                 0           5           10         15
                    Average # days visit on NYT each week                Average mins spent on NYT each week


                                          Access                        Access + Encour.


Figure A.5: Cumulative distribution plot of the average total number of days visiting the New York Times
website (including both the English and Chinese edition) in a given week (left panel), and the average
total browsing time on the New York Times website (right panel), among all students in the access treatment
group (A) and the access + encouragement treatment group (AE). The dashed horizontal lines indicate the
percentage of sudents in Group-A and Group-AE who have not activated the access tool throughout the
experiment.




                                                            A.48
                                             Unincentivized       Incentivized                                          50th anniversary                                                                                                             Trump calls                              Chinese New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 US Presidential
                                                                                                                        of Cultural                                                                             National Day                                                   Trump’s
                                             encouragement        encouragement
                                                                                              Panama Papers
                                             period               period                                                Revolution
                                                                                                                                                                         2016 Rio Olympics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                holiday week     Election            President of Taiwan       Inauguration   holiday week

                         12




        Total browsing time per week (min)



A.49
                 4             8



                         0
                                              2016-01         2016-02             2016-03   2016-04           2016-05               2016-06           2016-07          2016-08                 2016-09         2016-10         2016-11             2016-12                 2017-01            2017-02            2017-03   2017-04

                                                                                                 Access: NYTimes                           Access + Encour.: NYTimes                         Access: all foreign news             Access + Encour.: all foreign news



       Figure A.6: Average total browsing time (minutes) on the New York Times and all top foreign news websites per week, among students received
       only the access treatment (Group-A) and those who received both access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE). New York Times browsing
       time includes both its English and Chinese websites. Top foriegn news websites are defined based on Alexa Top Websites categorization, which
       include CNN, The Guardian, Huffington Post, Fox News, The BBC, The Economist, Bloomberg, The Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Reuters,
       NBC News, Financial Times, and Reddit.
                                               Unincentivized       Incentivized                                          50th anniversary                                                                                                     Trump calls                               Chinese New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           US Presidential
                                                                                                                          of Cultural                                                                     National Day                                                    Trump’s
                                               encouragement        encouragement
                                                                                                Panama Papers
                                               period               period                                                Revolution
                                                                                                                                                                       2016 Rio Olympics
                                                                                                                                                                                                          holiday week     Election            President of Taiwan        Inauguration   holiday week

                          .8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30




        % students actively browsing NYTimes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10                20




A.50

              .2          .4         .6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    % pol. sensitive articles on NYTimes



                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                 2016-01        2016-02             2016-03   2016-04           2016-05               2016-06         2016-07      2016-08                 2016-09       2016-10         2016-11             2016-12                 2017-01             2017-02            2017-03   2017-04

                                                                                                                                             Access         Access + Encour.                     % sensitive articles on NYTimes



       Figure A.7: Average proportion of students actively browsing the New York Times website (including both its English and Chinese edition)
       per week, among students received only the access treatment (Group-A) and those who received both access and encouragement treatments
       (Group-AE). A student actively browses the New York Times in a given week if she visits the New York Times on at least two days out of the week.
       Dotted line (y-axis on the right hand side) indicates the proportion of articles published on the New York Times that are politically sensitive
       during that corresponding week.
                                                                                                             Satisfaction of economic dev.
                                                                                                          Satisfaction of domestic politics
                                                                                                          Satisfaction of tool
                                                                                                    Purchase              diplomaticoffered
                                                                                                                                     affairs
                                                                                                    Purchase discounted
                                                                                                                discounted tool we
                                                                                                                                 we offered
                                                                                               z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance
                                                                                                                         Purchase
                                                                                                                         Purchase any tool
                                                                                                                                    any tool

                                                       A.1: Information source and




   A. Media-related behaviors, beliefs and attitudes
                                                                                                       Living in
                                                                                                           Rankeddemocracy is     not important
                                                           media consumption
                                                                                                           Ranked high:
                                                                                                                     high: domestic
                                                                                                                           domestic websites
                                                                                                                                       websites
                                                                                                             Ranked
                                                                                                             Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                                                                                       high: foreign   websites
                                                                                                           Willing to battle
                                                                                                       Ranked                 illegal govt. acts
                                                                                                       Ranked high:
                                                                                                                high: domestic
                                                                                                                       domestic social
                                                                                                                                   social media
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                          Willing to
                                                                                                         Ranked      report
                                                                                                                   high:     govt.social
                                                                                                                         foreign    misconduct
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                         Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                                                                            Willing to stand up
                                                                                                                Ranked             for themouth
                                                                                                                                           weak
                                                                                                                Ranked high:
                                                                                                                         high: word
                                                                                                                                 word of
                                                                                                                                       of mouth
                                                                                                                  z-score: willingness to act
                                                                                          Frequency
                                                                                          Frequency of
                                                                                                    of visiting
                                                                                                       visiting foreign
                                                                                                                foreign websites
                                                                                                                        websites for
                                                                                                                                 for info.
                                                                                                                                     info.

                                                       A.2: Purchase of censorship                  Purchasediscussing
                                                                                                Frequency     discounted toolwith
                                                                                                                               we offered
                                                                                                Frequency of
                                                                                                          of discussing poli.
                                                                                                                        poli. with friends
                                                                                                                                   friends
                                                            circumvention tools                                       Purchase    any tool
                                                                                                        Frequency
                                                                                                        Frequency of persuading others
                                                                                                                   of persuading    others

                                                       A.3: Valuation of access to         Willingness
                                                                                                    Ranked
                                                                                                   Protests to pay   for domestic
                                                                                                                  high:    circumvention websitestool
                                                            foreign media                          Protests concerning
                                                                                                                 concerning social social issues
                                                                                                                                             issues
                                                                                              Value added
                                                                                                        Ranked    of to
                                                                                                               Plan  foreign
                                                                                                                     high:       media
                                                                                                                              foreign
                                                                                                                           vote   for       access
                                                                                                                                         websites
                                                                                                                                       local   PCR
                                                                                                               Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                                              z-score: valuation of
                                                                                                Rankedaccess high:todomestic
                                                                                                        Complain      foreign     media
                                                                                                                                   social outlets
                                                                                                                                             media
                                                                                                        Complain to     to school
                                                                                                                            school authorities
                                                                                                                                      authorities
                                                                                                   Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                       A.4: Trust in media outlets          Distrust in Ranked
                                                                                           Currently       domestichigh:  state-owned        media
                                                                                                                                 word of mouth
                                                                                           Currently invested
                                                                                                        invested in  in Chinese
                                                                                                                          Chinese stockstock mkt.
                                                                                                                                                mkt.
                                                                                        Distrust in domestic privately-owned media
                                                                                    Frequency of visiting            Trustwebsites
                                                                                                                 foreign
                                                                                                              Plan:           in foreign     media
                                                                                                                                           for  info.
                                                                                                              Plan: grad.
                                                                                                                      grad. school
                                                                                                                               school in in China
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                       z-score: trust in Plan:
                                                                                                             non-domestic
                                                                                                                    master        media
                                                                                                                                degree      outlets
                                                                                                                                            abroad
                                                                                                            Plan: master degree abroad
                                                                                          Frequency of Plan: discussing       poli. with abroad
                                                                                                                                            friends
                                                                                                               Plan: PhD PhD degree
                                                                                                                                degree abroad
                                                       A.5: Beliefs regarding     Degree ofWillingness
                                                                                              censorship    to on
                                                                                                     Frequency pay for     circumvention
                                                                                                                    domestic
                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                     Plan:         newsinoutlets
                                                                                                                           persuading            tool
                                                                                                                                             others
                                                                                                                     Plan: military in China
                                                                                                                              military        China
                                                            level of actual media             Value added of Plan:   foreign     media      access
                                                            censorship                                               Plan: workwork right
                                                                                                                                      right away
                                                                                                                                               away
                                                                              z-score: valuation
                                                                                    Degree    of of   access to
                                                                                                  censorship
                                                                                                   Protests        on foreign
                                                                                                                        foreignmedia
                                                                                                                 concerning        social outlets
                                                                                                                                   news      issues
                                                                                                    Sector     Plan to     vote for local      PCR
                                                                                                    Sector pref.:
                                                                                                               pref.: national
                                                                                                                        national civil
                                                                                                                                     civil service
                                                                                                                                            service
                                                                                            Distrust  in
                                                                                             Unjustified:  domestic
                                                                                                               censoring
                                                                                                        Complain
                                                                                                          Sector        tostate-owned
                                                                                                                               economic
                                                                                                                            school           media
                                                                                                                                               news
                                                                                                                                      authorities
                                                       A.6: Justification of media                        Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                    pref.: local
                                                                                                                             local civil
                                                                                                                                     civil service
                                                                                                                                            service
                                                            censorship                  Distrust in  domesticcensoring
                                                                                                Unjustified:        privately-owned
                                                                                                                        Sector    political  media
                                                                                                                                               news
                                                                                                                        Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                                   pref.: military
                                                                                                                                            military
                                                                                                   Unjustified:
                                                                                           Currently    invested
                                                                                                    Sector           Trust
                                                                                                                    censoring
                                                                                                                     in       in
                                                                                                                          Chineseforeign
                                                                                                                                     social
                                                                                                                                       stock media
                                                                                                                                               news
                                                                                                                                                mkt.
                                                                                                    Sector pref.:
                                                                                                               pref.: private
                                                                                                                        private firm
                                                                                                                                   firm in
                                                                                                                                         in China
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                       z-score: trust    in
                                                                                                 Unjustified:
                                                                                                    Sector   non-domestic
                                                                                                                   censoring      media
                                                                                                                                   foreign  outlets
                                                                                                                                               news
                                                                                                    Sector pref.:
                                                                                                               pref.: foreign
                                                                                                                        foreign firm
                                                                                                                                   firm in
                                                                                                                                         in China
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                                 Unjustified:      censoring
                                                                                                              Plan: grad.          pornography
                                                                                                                               school in
                                                                                                                          Sector              China
                                                                                                                          Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                                     pref.: SOEs
                                                                                                                                              SOEs
                                                                                  Degree of censorship  z-score:
                                                                                                      Sector    on
                                                                                                            Plan:   domestic
                                                                                                                     censorship
                                                                                                                    master
                                                                                                                  pref.:   inst.   news
                                                                                                                                degree      outlets
                                                                                                                                      unjustified
                                                                                                                                            abroad
                                                                                                                                  organizations
                                                                                                      Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                                                                         SectorPlan: PhD degree             abroad
                                                                                                         Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                   pref.: entrepreneurship
                                                                                                                            entrepreneurship
                                                       A.7: Belief regarding driversDegree of     censorship
                                                                                            Domestic       cens. on     foreign
                                                                                                                   driven
                                                                                                                     Plan:    by   newsinpolicies
                                                                                                                                  govt.
                                                                                                                              military      outlets
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                            of media censorship             Domestic cens. driven    Plan:    by  corp.
                                                                                                                               work   rightinterest
                                                                                                                                               away
                                                                                                                     Location      pref.:
                                                                                                                     Location pref.: BeijingBeijing
                                                                                             Unjustified:
                                                                                        Domestic               censoring
                                                                                                    cens. driven Location      economic
                                                                                                                         by media’s
                                                                                                                               pref.:          news
                                                                                                                                         ideology
                                                                                                                                        Shanghai
                                                                                                                 Location pref.: Shanghai
                                                                                        DomesticUnjustified:
                                                                                         Location   Sectordriven
                                                                                                    cens.
                                                                                                    pref.:        censoring
                                                                                                               pref.:
                                                                                                              Guangzhou  by       political
                                                                                                                             readers’
                                                                                                                        nationaland  civil     news
                                                                                                                                          demand
                                                                                                                                            service
                                                                                                                                      Shenzhen
                                                                                         Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                                                                                                   Unjustified:
                                                                                                 Location Sector
                                                                                                              pref.:censoring
                                                                                                                    pref.:
                                                                                                                       tier  local
                                                                                                                             2       social
                                                                                                                                     civil
                                                                                                                                cities  in     news
                                                                                                                                            service
                                                                                                                                            central
                                                                                                 Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                                                                 Unjustified:
                                                                                              Foreign
                                                                                                  Location         censoring
                                                                                                           cens. driven Sector     foreign
                                                                                                                              by govt.
                                                                                                                                   pref.:      news
                                                                                                                                           policies
                                                                                                                                            military
                                                                                                  Location pref.:
                                                                                                               pref.: other
                                                                                                                         other cities
                                                                                                                                 cities in
                                                                                                                                         in China
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                                 Unjustified:
                                                                                              Foreign
                                                                                                    Sector cens.   censoring
                                                                                                                   driven
                                                                                                               pref.:
                                                                                                         Location             by
                                                                                                                        private
                                                                                                                      pref.:    HK pornography
                                                                                                                                  corp.
                                                                                                                                   firm
                                                                                                                                     and ininterest
                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                                                                            Macau
                                                                                                         Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                                          Foreign cens. z-score:
                                                                                                    Sector    driven censorship
                                                                                                               pref.: by     media’s
                                                                                                                        foreign
                                                                                                                     Location         unjustified
                                                                                                                                         ideology
                                                                                                                                   firm in    China
                                                                                                                     Location pref.:
                                                                                                                                   pref.: Taiwan
                                                                                                                                            Taiwan
                                                                                          Foreign cens. driven
                                                                                                             Location    bypref.:
                                                                                                                             readers’
                                                                                                                          Sector          demand
                                                                                                                                     pref.:   SOEs
                                                                                                             Location pref.: foreign cities
                                                                                                                                   foreign     cities
                                                                                            Domestic       cens.pref.:
                                                                                                      Sector       driven     by govt.
                                                                                                                           inst.           policies
                                                                                                                                  organizations
                                                                                            DomesticSector cens. pref.:
                                                                                                                   driven by corp.         interest
                                                                                                                            entrepreneurship             -1
                                                                                                                                                         -1        0
                                                                                                                                                                   0        1
                                                                                                                                                                            1         2
                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                        Domestic
                                                                                         Steel      cens. driven
                                                                                                production               by media’s
                                                                                                                 reduction      reaches  ideology
                                                                                                                                              target    Standardized means
                                                                                                                                                        Standardized means (Control
                                                                                                                                                                           (Control =
                                                                                                                                                                                    = 0)
                                                                                                                                                                                      0)
                                                                                        Domestic
                                                                                             Trump  cens.     driven by
                                                                                                       registered            readers’
                                                                                                                        trademarks
                                                                                                                     Location             demand
                                                                                                                                   pref.:in   China
                                                                                                                                            Beijing
                                      Jianhua Xiao Location
                                                      kidnapped inpref.:Hong   Kong
                                                                          Shanghai     Access
                                                                                       Access         Access
                                                                                                      Access +
                                                                                                             + Encour.
                                                                                                               Encour.
                                        Foreign cens.
                                   Xinjiang pref.:
                                  Location              driven
                                            installed GPS
                                                   Guangzhou     by
                                                              on all govt.
                                                                   and       policies
                                                                       automobiles
                                                                         Shenzhen      Existing
                                                                                       Existing users
                                                                                                users
                                        Foreign
                                         China  cens.
                                                and
                                         Location       driven
                                                           tier 2by
                                                      Norway
                                                    pref.:           corp.ininterest
                                                                re-normalize
                                                                   cities         ties
                                                                              central
                                   Foreign  cens.
                                        Feminist
                                          Location  driven
                                                   groups   by  media’s
                                                     pref.: fight  women's
                                                            other cities   ideology
                                                                               rights
                                                                           in China
                                   ForeignLam
                                   Carrie   cens.   drivenpref.:
                                                becomes
                                               Location     by
                                                             HKreaders’
                                                                 Chiefand
                                                                   HK       demand
                                                                          Executive
                                                                              Macau
Figure A.8: Comparison of (standardized) means in endline survey outcomes, among students in control
                          % quizzes answered correctly:      poli. sensitive
                                                         Location              news
                                                                      pref.: Taiwan
group (Group-C, pooling C and CE students together), those who received only the access treatment (Group-
                                                 Location pref.: foreign cities
A), those who received both access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE) and the existing users. The
                                   Steel
                                China    production
                                      stops         reduction
                                            importing coal     reaches
                                                            from        target
                                                                  North Korea
mean level among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows          -1 95 percent0 confidence
                                                                                                         1 intervals2
                                      Trump registered
                                                   H7N9trademarks
                                                          influenza in  China
                                                                     epidemic
calculated using robust standard error for Group-AE students. Sample Standardized
                                                                                is restricted tomeans
                                                                                                 1,372 students
                                                                                                        (Controlwho
                                                                                                                 = 0)
                                      Jianhua Xiao  kidnapped
                                            Transnational       in in
                                                           railway Hong  Kong
                                                                      Ethiopia
have completed the endline survey.
                                                                                            Xinjiang installed
                                                                                                 Foreign        GPSfall
                                                                                                          reserves    on all automobiles
                                                                                                                         below  threshold
                                                                                                  China and
                                                                                    % quizzes answered        Norway
                                                                                                           correctly:   re-normalize
                                                                                                                      nonsensitive    ties
                                                                                                                                    news                   Access           Access + Encour.
                                                                                                 Feminist groups A.51
                                                                                                                    fight women's rights                   Existing users
                                                                                            Carrie
                                                                                               2012Lam
                                                                                                    HK becomes
                                                                                                        Anti-NationalHK Curr.
                                                                                                                         ChiefMovement
                                                                                                                               Executive
                                                                                    % quizzes answered 2014
                                                                                                         correctly:
                                                                                                               HK poli.   sensitive
                                                                                                                   Umbrella         news
                                                                                                                              Revolution
                                                                                                         2016 HK Mong Kok Revolution
                                                                                            China stops
                                                                                                2014    importing
                                                                                                     Taiwan       coal from
                                                                                                            Sunflower   Stud.North Korea
                                                                                                                              Movement
                                                                                                               H7N9
                                                                                                   % protests in     influenza
                                                                                                                 Greater       epidemic
                                                                                                                          China heard  of
                                         Frequently visit foreign websites for info                Valuation of access to foreign media outlets             Trust in non-domestic media outlets                             Censorship is unjustified                   Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets            Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets
                                 6                                                           1                                                    1                                                       1                                                           9                                                    9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8                                                    8
                                 5                                                           .5                                                   .5                                                      .5
         A. Media-related
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7                                                    7
                                 4                                                           0                                                    0                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6                                                    6

                                 3                                                           -.5                                                  -.5                                                     -.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5                                                    5
            behaviors, beliefs
                                 2                                                           -1                                                   -1                                                      -1                                                          4                                                    4
                                       Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline         Baseline    Midline                 Endline
            and attitudes
                                         % quizzes answered correctly: sensitive                   % quizzes answered correctly: non-sensitive            Awareness of protests in Greater China                       Awareness of foreign protests                            Self-assessment of knowledge level
                                 .8                                                          .8                                                   .8                                                      .8                                                          1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5
                                 .6                                                          .6                                                   .6                                                      .6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0

                                 .4                                                          .4                                                   .4                                                      .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -.5


                                 .2                                                          .2                                                   .2                                                      .2                                                          -1
          B. Knowledge
                                       Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline


                                          Optimistic belief of Chinese economy                     Confidence of guesses on Chinese economy
                                 1                                                           1


                                 .5                                                          .5
         C. Economic
                                 0                                                           0



            beliefs              -.5                                                         -.5


                                 -1                                                          -1
                                       Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline
A.52
                                             Demand for institutional change                                  Trust in Chinese govt.                                  Trust in foreign govt.                         Satisfaction of govt. performance                          Living in democracy is not important                          Willingness to act
                                 1                                                           1                                                    1                                                       1                                                           1                                                    1


         D. Political            .5                                                          .5                                                   .5                                                      .5                                                          .5                                                   .5


                                 0                                                           0                                                    0                                                       0                                                           0                                                    0

            attitudes
                                 -.5                                                         -.5                                                  -.5                                                     -.5                                                         -.5                                                  -.5


                                 -1                                                          -1                                                   -1                                                      -1                                                          -1                                                   -1
                                       Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline     Midline                 Endline         Baseline       Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline         Baseline     Midline                Endline


                                                  Social interaction in politics                              Participation behaviors                              Plan: master degree abroad                              Location pref.: foreign cities                     Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.
                                 1                                                           1                                                    .4                                                      .3                                                          .15

                                                                                                                                                                                                          .25
                                 .5                                                          .5
                                                                                                                                                  .3                                                                                                                  .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          .2
                                 0                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          .15
                                                                                                                                                  .2                                                                                                                  .05
                                 -.5                                                         -.5
          E. Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                          .1

                                 -1                                                          -1                                                   .1                                                      .05                                                         0
                                       Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline     Midline                 Endline         Baseline       Midline                  Endline         Baseline       Midline                      Endline         Baseline    Midline                  Endline




                                                                                                    Control                                                 Access                                                         Access + Encour.                                                                    Existing users

       Figure A.9: Average level of outcomes elicited in the panel survey, among students in control group (Group-C, pooling C and CE students
       together), those who received only the access treatment (Group-A), those who received both access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE)
       and the existing users, across the baseline survey (November 2015), midline survey (May 2016), and endline survey (April 2017). If there
       are multiple survey questions elicited within a category or subcategory of outcomes, results are shown using a z-score index aggregating
       all corresponding questions. The z-score index (weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized variables) is computed following
       Anderson (2008). Sample is restricted to 1,372 students who have completed the endline survey.
                                                                                                                z-score:
                                                                                                             Willing
                                                                                                             Willing      trustup
                                                                                                                     to stand
                                                                                                                     to stand  in for
                                                                                                                               up  foreign
                                                                                                                                       the  govt.
                                                                                                                                       the weak
                                                                                                                                           weak
                                                                                                                   z-score:
                                                                                                                   z-score: willingness
                                                                                                                             willingness toto act
                                                                                                                                              act
                                                                                                              Satisfaction of economic dev.
                                                                                                             Satisfaction of domestic politics
                                                                                                            Satisfaction
                                                                                                      Purchase
                                                                                                      Purchase            of tool
                                                                                                                  discounted
                                                                                                                  discounteddiplomatic
                                                                                                                              tool we   affairs
                                                                                                                                   we offered
                                                                                                                                       offered
                                                                                                 z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance
                                                                                                                           Purchase
                                                                                                                           Purchase   any
                                                                                                                                      any tool
                                                                                                                                           tool

                                                       A.1: Information source and                      Living in democracy    is not important




   A. Media-related behaviors, beliefs and attitudes
                                                                                                            Ranked
                                                                                                            Ranked   high:
                                                                                                                     high: domestic
                                                                                                                           domestic    websites
                                                                                                                                       websites
                                                           media consumption
                                                                                                              Ranked
                                                                                                              Ranked high:
                                                                                                                       high: foreign
                                                                                                                              foreign websites
                                                                                                                                       websites
                                                                                                            Willing
                                                                                                        Ranked
                                                                                                        Ranked      to battle
                                                                                                                 high:
                                                                                                                 high:        illegal
                                                                                                                       domestic
                                                                                                                       domestic       govt.
                                                                                                                                   social
                                                                                                                                   social   acts
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                          Willing to
                                                                                                          Ranked
                                                                                                          Ranked     report
                                                                                                                   high:
                                                                                                                   high:    govt.social
                                                                                                                         foreign
                                                                                                                         foreign  misconduct
                                                                                                                                 social media
                                                                                                                                        media
                                                                                                            Willing to stand
                                                                                                                Ranked
                                                                                                                Ranked   high:up
                                                                                                                         high:   for of
                                                                                                                               word
                                                                                                                               word  themouth
                                                                                                                                     of  weak
                                                                                                                                        mouth
                                                                                                                    z-score: willingness to act
                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                             Frequency of
                                                                                                       of visiting
                                                                                                          visiting foreign
                                                                                                                   foreign websites
                                                                                                                           websites for
                                                                                                                                    for info.
                                                                                                                                        info.

                                                       A.2: Purchase of censorship                    Purchase
                                                                                                  Frequency     discountedpoli.
                                                                                                            of discussing
                                                                                                               discussing  toolwith
                                                                                                                                 we offered
                                                                                                                                     friends
                                                                                                  Frequency of            poli. with friends
                                                            circumvention tools
                                                                                                          Frequency  of Purchase
                                                                                                          Frequency of  persuadingany
                                                                                                                        persuading       tool
                                                                                                                                      others
                                                                                                                                      others

                                                       A.3: Valuation of access to                 Willingness to pay
                                                                                                           Ranked
                                                                                                          Protests     for domestic
                                                                                                                    high:  circumvention
                                                                                                                   concerning              tool
                                                                                                                                      websites
                                                                                                                                 social issues
                                                            foreign media                                 Protests concerning    social issues
                                                                                                      Value added
                                                                                                             Ranked of
                                                                                                                  Plan foreign
                                                                                                                       high:
                                                                                                                  Plan to
                                                                                                                        to      media
                                                                                                                             foreign
                                                                                                                           vote
                                                                                                                           vote for     access
                                                                                                                                      websites
                                                                                                                                for local
                                                                                                                                    local PCR
                                                                                                                                          PCR
                                                                                   z-score: valuation of access
                                                                                                    Ranked    high:to foreign
                                                                                                           Complain  domestic
                                                                                                                        to     media
                                                                                                                                social
                                                                                                                           school      outlets
                                                                                                                                       media
                                                                                                                                  authorities
                                                                                                           Complain     to school authorities
                                                                                                      Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                       A.4: Trust in media outlets              Distrust ininvested
                                                                                                             domestic
                                                                                                             Ranked      state-owned   media
                                                                                               Currently
                                                                                               Currently   invested   inhigh:
                                                                                                                      in      wordstock
                                                                                                                         Chinese
                                                                                                                         Chinese   of mouth
                                                                                                                                  stock  mkt.
                                                                                                                                         mkt.
                                                                                                Distrust in domestic privately-owned media
                                                                                            Frequency of visiting      Trust
                                                                                                                    foreign   in foreignfor
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                                 Plan:
                                                                                                                 Plan:  grad.websites
                                                                                                                        grad.  school in
                                                                                                                               school        info.
                                                                                                                                       in China
                                                                                                                                          China
                                                                                              z-score: trust in Plan:
                                                                                                                non-domestic     media   outlets
                                                                                                                Plan: master
                                                                                                                      master degree
                                                                                                                                degree abroad
                                                                                                                                         abroad
                                                                                                 Frequency of discussing PhDpoli.
                                                                                                                  Plan: PhD
                                                                                                                  Plan:             with abroad
                                                                                                                                degree
                                                                                                                                degree   friends
                                                                                                                                         abroad
                                                       A.5: Beliefs regarding              DegreeWillingness
                                                                                                   of censorship   on  domestic   news
                                                                                                          Frequency     of
                                                                                                               to pay for  persuading  inoutlets
                                                                                                                           circumvention
                                                                                                                       Plan:
                                                                                                                       Plan: military
                                                                                                                              military in others
                                                                                                                                              tool
                                                                                                                                          China
                                                                                                                                          China
                                                            level of actual media
                                                                                                   Value added of Plan:
                                                                                                                     foreign
                                                                                                                     Plan:      media
                                                                                                                              work
                                                                                                                              work  rightaccess
                                                                                                                                    right   away
                                                                                                                                            away
                                                            censorship
                                                                                         Degree
                                                                                   z-score:        of censorship
                                                                                            valuation   Protests
                                                                                                       of          on  foreignmedia
                                                                                                                  concerning
                                                                                                          access to   foreign    social outlets
                                                                                                                                 news     issues
                                                                                                        Sector Plan
                                                                                                        Sector  pref.:to
                                                                                                                pref.:    vote forcivil
                                                                                                                       national
                                                                                                                       national      local
                                                                                                                                   civil    PCR
                                                                                                                                         service
                                                                                                                                         service
                                                       A.6: Justification of media                Unjustified:  censoring
                                                                                                           Complain
                                                                                                Distrust inSector
                                                                                                              domestic
                                                                                                             Sector    to     economic
                                                                                                                           school
                                                                                                                        state-owned
                                                                                                                    pref.:
                                                                                                                    pref.: local
                                                                                                                            local           news
                                                                                                                                    authorities
                                                                                                                                   civil  media
                                                                                                                                   civil service
                                                                                                                                         service
                                                            censorship                               Unjustified:
                                                                                                         domesticcensoring
                                                                                             Distrust in               Sector political
                                                                                                                    privately-owned
                                                                                                                       Sector    pref.:     news
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                                                 pref.: military
                                                                                                                                         military
                                                                                                       Unjustified:
                                                                                               Currently   invested
                                                                                                        Sector      censoring
                                                                                                                     in Chinese
                                                                                                                     Trust   in    social
                                                                                                                                     stock
                                                                                                                                foreign     news
                                                                                                                                             mkt.
                                                                                                                                          media
                                                                                                        Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                pref.: private
                                                                                                                       private firm
                                                                                                                                 firm in
                                                                                                                                       in China
                                                                                                                                           China
                                                                                                      Unjustified:
                                                                                            z-score: trust  in
                                                                                                        Sector     censoring
                                                                                                               non-domestic
                                                                                                        Sector pref.:
                                                                                                                pref.: foreign   foreign
                                                                                                                                media
                                                                                                                       foreign firm
                                                                                                                                 firm in    news
                                                                                                                                         outlets
                                                                                                                                       in China
                                                                                                                                           China
                                                                                                       Unjustified: censoring
                                                                                                                Plan: grad.      pornography
                                                                                                                             school
                                                                                                                         Sector
                                                                                                                         Sector      in
                                                                                                                                  pref.:
                                                                                                                                  pref.: China
                                                                                                                                         SOEs
                                                                                                                                         SOEs
                                                                                                           z-score:
                                                                                                              Plan:
                                                                                           Degree of censorship
                                                                                                          Sector on  censorship
                                                                                                                     master
                                                                                                                     domestic
                                                                                                          Sector pref.:            unjustified
                                                                                                                              degree
                                                                                                                   pref.: inst.  news  abroad
                                                                                                                                        outlets
                                                                                                                          inst. organizations
                                                                                                                                organizations
                                                                                                           Sector
                                                                                                           SectorPlan:  PhD
                                                                                                                    pref.:
                                                                                                                    pref.:    degree abroad
                                                                                                                           entrepreneurship
                                                                                                                           entrepreneurship
                                                       A.7: Belief regarding drivers              Domestic
                                                                                            Degree of        cens. on
                                                                                                       censorship   driven
                                                                                                                     Plan:  by  govt.
                                                                                                                                 newsinpolicies
                                                                                                                            military
                                                                                                                       foreign           China
                                                                                                                                        outlets
                                                            of media censorship
                                                                                                   Domestic cens. driven
                                                                                                                       Plan: by
                                                                                                                      Location
                                                                                                                      Location  corp.
                                                                                                                              work      interest
                                                                                                                                    right
                                                                                                                                 pref.:
                                                                                                                                 pref.:    away
                                                                                                                                         Beijing
                                                                                                                                         Beijing
                                                                                                Domestic  cens. driven
                                                                                                    Unjustified:         by
                                                                                                                  censoring
                                                                                                                   Location media’s
                                                                                                                              economic
                                                                                                                   Location pref.:    ideology
                                                                                                                                           news
                                                                                                                              pref.: Shanghai
                                                                                                                                     Shanghai
                                                                                                Domestic  cens.
                                                                                                          Sector driven
                                                                                                                  pref.:
                                                                                                       Unjustified:
                                                                                                 Location                by readers’
                                                                                                                         national
                                                                                                                    censoring     civildemand
                                                                                                                                politicalservice
                                                                                                                                           news
                                                                                                 Location pref.:
                                                                                                          pref.: Guangzhou
                                                                                                                 Guangzhou and and Shenzhen
                                                                                                                                    Shenzhen
                                                                                                             Sector
                                                                                                         Unjustified:
                                                                                                       Location
                                                                                                       Location       pref.:
                                                                                                                 pref.:
                                                                                                                 pref.:        local
                                                                                                                       censoring
                                                                                                                         tier
                                                                                                                         tier 22 cities
                                                                                                                                 citiescivil
                                                                                                                                          in service
                                                                                                                                       social
                                                                                                                                          in    news
                                                                                                                                              central
                                                                                                                                              central
                                                                                                     Foreign  cens.
                                                                                                       Unjustified:
                                                                                                        Location      driven
                                                                                                                          Sector
                                                                                                                     censoring
                                                                                                        Location pref.:
                                                                                                                  pref.: other  by  govt.
                                                                                                                                    pref.:
                                                                                                                                     foreign
                                                                                                                           other cities
                                                                                                                                   cities in policies
                                                                                                                                              military
                                                                                                                                                news
                                                                                                                                           in China
                                                                                                                                               China
                                                                                                     Foreign  cens.
                                                                                                          Sector      driven
                                                                                                                  pref.:
                                                                                                        Unjustified:
                                                                                                            Location            by
                                                                                                                          private
                                                                                                                     censoring
                                                                                                            Location pref.:
                                                                                                                         pref.: HK  corp.
                                                                                                                                     firm  ininterest
                                                                                                                                               China
                                                                                                                                     pornography
                                                                                                                                 HK andand Macau
                                                                                                                                              Macau
                                                                                                 Foreign cens.
                                                                                                         Sector  driven    by  media’s
                                                                                                                  pref.:Location
                                                                                                            z-score:      foreign
                                                                                                                       censorship          ideology
                                                                                                                                     firm in   China
                                                                                                                                        unjustified
                                                                                                                                     pref.:   Taiwan
                                                                                                                       Location      pref.:   Taiwan
                                                                                                 Foreign cens.Location
                                                                                                                 driven by     readers’
                                                                                                                            Sector          demand
                                                                                                                Location pref.:      foreignSOEs
                                                                                                                                       pref.:
                                                                                                                            pref.: foreign      cities
                                                                                                                                                cities
                                                                                                   DomesticSector
                                                                                                              cens.pref.:
                                                                                                                      driven inst.  organizations
                                                                                                                                by govt.     policies
                                                                                                   DomesticSector
                                                                                                              cens. pref.:                   interest -.5
                                                                                                                              entrepreneurship
                                                                                                                      driven by corp.                   -.5          0
                                                                                                                                                                     0            .5
                                                                                                                                                                                  .5
                                                                                                 Steel production
                                                                                                Domestic            reduction
                                                                                                          cens. driven            reaches
                                                                                                                           by media’s          target Standardized
                                                                                                                                           ideology    Standardized means (Control =
                                                                                                                                                                    means (Control = 0)
                                                                                                                                                                                     0)
                                                                                                   Trump
                                                                                                Domestic   registered
                                                                                                         cens.        trademarks
                                                                                                                    Location
                                                                                                               driven by       pref.:in
                                                                                                                          readers’      China
                                                                                                                                       Beijing
                                                                                                                                    demand
                                                                                                   Jianhua Xiao Location
                                                                                                                 kidnapped in
                                                                                                                            pref.:Hong  Kong
                                                                                                                                   Shanghai           Control
                                                                                                                                                      Control +
                                                                                                                                                              + Encour.
                                                                                                                                                                Encour.
                                                                                                  Xinjiang
                                                                                                 Location  installed
                                                                                                               cens.GPS
                                                                                                           pref.:
                                                                                                       Foreign    Guangzhou
                                                                                                                     driven onbyall
                                                                                                                                and automobiles
                                                                                                                                      Shenzhen
                                                                                                                                   govt. policies
                                                                                                        China  and
                                                                                                        Location
                                                                                                       Foreign     Norway
                                                                                                                  pref.:
                                                                                                               cens.          re-normalize
                                                                                                                         tier 2by
                                                                                                                     driven     cities       ties
                                                                                                                                       ininterest
                                                                                                                                   corp.  central
                                              Feminist
                                         Foreign       groups
                                                Location
                                                  cens.inpref.:
                                                        driven  fight
                                                                other
                                                                by     women's
                                                                        cities
                                                                    media’s    in rights
                                                                                  China
                                                                               ideology
Figure A.10: Comparison of (standardized)     means        endline      survey     outcomes, among students in control
                                         Carrie
                                         ForeignLam   becomes
                                                     Location
                                                  cens. driven   HK HK
                                                               pref.:
                                                                by   Chief
                                                                    readers’ Executive
                                                                            and  Macau
                                                                                demand
group (Group-C) and hose who received only the encouragement treatment (Group-CE). The mean level
                                 % quizzes answered correctly:   poli. sensitive   news
among Group-C students is normalized     as 0. Figure alsoLocation
                                                                shows    pref.:  Taiwan
                                                                            95 percent    confidence intervals calculated
using robust standard error for Group-CE students. Sample is restrictedcities
                                                       Location   pref.:  foreign    to 396 students who have completed
                                      China stops
                                         Steel     importing coal
                                               production          from
                                                           reduction       North Korea
                                                                       reaches    target
the endline survey.
                                                                                                                 H7N9trademarks
                                                                                                    Trump registered     influenza in   China -.5
                                                                                                                                    epidemic                   0        .5
                                                                                                              A.53
                                                                                                         Transnational
                                                                                                   Jianhua Xiao           railway
                                                                                                                  kidnapped    in in    Kong Standardized means (Control = 0)
                                                                                                                                     Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                  Hong
                                                                                                     Foreign
                                                                                                Xinjiang     reserves
                                                                                                         installed GPSfall   below
                                                                                                                          on all    threshold
                                                                                                                                 automobiles
                                                                                         % quizzes answered   correctly:  nonsensitive  news          Control + Encour.
                                                                                                      China and  Norway     re-normalize  ties
                                                                                                    Feminist groups fight women's rights
                                                                                                  2012Lam
                                                                                               Carrie  HK becomes
                                                                                                          Anti-National
                                                                                                                     HK Curr.
                                                                                                                         ChiefMovement
                                                                                                                               Executive
                                                                                       % quizzes answered 2014  HK poli.
                                                                                                          correctly:Umbrella  Revolution
                                                                                                                          sensitive news
                                                   Domestic cens. driven by   corp. any
                                                                          Purchase  interest
                                                                                        tool
                                                 Domestic cens. driven by media’s ideology
                                                 Domestic cens.
                                                          Rankeddriven
                                                                   high:bydomestic
                                                                           readers’websites
                                                                                   demand
                                                             Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                      Foreign
                                                       Rankedcens.
                                                                high:driven by govt.
                                                                      domestic  socialpolicies
                                                                                        media
                                                      Foreign cens.
                                                         Ranked      driven
                                                                  high:     by corp.
                                                                        foreign socialinterest
                                                                                        media
                                                   Foreign cens.Ranked
                                                                 driven high:
                                                                        by media’s  ideology
                                                                              word of  mouth
                                                   Foreign cens. driven by readers’ demand
                                              Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.

                 B.2: Current news events




  B. Knowledge
                                               Steel production
                                               Frequency         reductionpoli.
                                                           of discussing     reaches    target
                                                                                with friends
                      not covered in the
                                                  TrumpFrequency
                                                          registered of
                                                                      trademarks    in  China
                                                                          persuading others
                      demand treatment
                                                  Jianhua Xiao kidnapped in Hong Kong
                                               XinjiangProtests
                                                        installedconcerning
                                                                  GPS on allsocial
                                                                               automobiles
                                                                                       issues
                                                     China andPlan
                                                                 Norway    re-normalize
                                                                     to vote for local PCR ties
                                                    Feminist  groups   fight women's    rights
                                                           Complain to school authorities
                                               Carrie Lam becomes HK Chief Executive
                                       % quizzesCurrently
                                                answeredinvested
                                                            correctly:
                                                                    in poli. sensitive
                                                                        Chinese  stocknewsmkt.

                                               China stops importing
                                                                Plan:coal
                                                                      grad.from  North
                                                                             school  in Korea
                                                                                        China
                                                                  H7N9   influenza  epidemic
                                                               Plan: master degree abroad
                                                          Transnational
                                                                 Plan: PhDrailway in Ethiopia
                                                                              degree   abroad
                                                      Foreign reserves
                                                                     Plan: militarythreshold
                                                                        fall below   in China
                                           % quizzes answered correctly:  nonsensitive
                                                                      Plan:              news
                                                                             work right away

                 B.4: Awareness of protests          2012 HK  Anti-National
                                                           Sector             Curr.civil
                                                                  pref.: national   Movement
                                                                                         service
                      and independence                        2014  HK   Umbrella   Revolution
                                                              Sector pref.: local civil service
                      movements
                                                             2016 HK MongSectorKok  Revolution
                                                                                 pref.:  military
                                                    2014 Taiwan Sunflower    Stud.  Movement
                                                           Sector pref.: private firm  in China
                                                       % protests
                                                          Sector in  Greater
                                                                  pref.:       China
                                                                         foreign       heard
                                                                                 firm in  Chinaof
                                                                          Sector pref.: SOEs
                                                    2014 Ukrainian   Euromaidan
                                                            Sector pref.:           Revolution
                                                                           inst. organizations
                                                              Sector pref.: 2010 Arab    Spring
                                                                             entrepreneurship
                                                         2014 Crimean Status Referendum
                                                         2010 Catalonian    Indep.
                                                                       Location     Movement
                                                                                  pref.: Beijing
                                                                       2017 pref.:
                                                                    Location  Women's    March
                                                                                     Shanghai
                                                  Location pref.: % foreign protests
                                                                  Guangzhou    and heard
                                                                                    Shenzhen   of
                                                         Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                            2011 pref.:
                                                          LocationTomorrow    Revolution
                                                                          other             [fake]
                                                                                 cities in China
                                                                Location pref.: HK and Macau
                 B.5: Self-assessment of                     Informedness   of issues
                                                                        Location   pref.:inTaiwan
                                                                                            China
                      knowledge level                      Greater  informedness     than peers
                                                                  Location  pref.: foreign   cities
                                                z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level
                                                                                                       -1        0        1         2
                                                                                                      Standardized means (Control = 0)
                                                   Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China
                                                             Guess on SSCI by end of 2016                Access           Access + Encour.
                                               z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy             Existing users

                                             Confidence of China GDP guess
Figure A.11: Comparison of (standardized) means        in endline
                                                   Confidence      survey
                                                              of SSCI guess outcomes, among students in control
group (Group-C, pooling C and CE students together), those who received only the access treatment (Group-
                         z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy
A), those who received both access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE) and the existing users. The
mean level among Group-C students is   normalized
                                     Guess             as 0. rate
                                            on GDP growth     Figure    also
                                                                   in 2016  USshows 95 percent confidence intervals
calculated using robust standard error for Group-AE students. Sample is restricted to 1,372 students who
                                              Guess   on DJI  by  end  of 2016
have completed the endline survey. z-score: optimistic belief of US economy

                                                              Confidence of US GDP guess
                                                                   Confidence of DJI guess
                                            z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy


                                                                         A.54
                                                          Economic system needs changes
                                                             Political system needs changes
                                                    z-score: demand for institutional change

                                                                 Trust in central govt. of China
                                                                               z-score: willingness to act
                                                                       Greater informedness than peers
                                                            z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level

                                                                Purchase discounted tool we offered
                            C.1: Belief on economic
                                                                                     Purchase any tool




   C. Economic beliefs
                                                           Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China
                                 performance in China
                                                                      Guess on SSCI by end of 2016
                                                                    Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                       z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy
                                                                       Ranked high: foreign websites
                            C.2: Confidence on guesses           Ranked high: domestic social media
                                                                    Confidence of China GDP guess
                                 regarding economic                Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                                           Confidence of SSCI guess
                                 performance in China                    Ranked high: word of mouth
                                                z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy

                                                         Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.
                            C.3: Belief on economic            Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 US
                                 performance in the US                   Guess on DJI by end of 2016
                                                             Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                                              z-score: optimistic belief of US economy
                                                                      Frequency of persuading others
                            C.4: Confidence on guesses                 Confidence of US GDP guess
                                 regarding economic                 Protests concerning social issues
                                                                             Confidence of DJI guess
                                 performance in the US                     Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                     z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy
                                                                       Complain to school authorities

                                                            Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.




   D. Political attitudes
                            D.1: Demand for institutional           Economic system needs changes
                                 change                               Political system needs changes
                                                                           Plan: grad. school in China
                                                            z-score: demand for institutional change
                                                                          Plan: master degree abroad
                                                                             Plan: PhD degree abroad
                            D.2: Trust in institutions                  Trust in central govt. of China
                                                                                 Plan: military in China
                                                                     Trust in provincial govt. of China
                                                                                 Plan: work right away
                                                                           Trust in local govt. of China
                                                                        z-score: trust in Chinese govt.
                                                                    Sector pref.: national civil service
                                                                        Sector pref.: local civil service
                                                                        Trust in central govt. of Japan
                                                                                   Sector pref.: military
                                                                            Trust in federal govt. of US
                                                                    Sector pref.: private firm in China
                                                                          z-score: trust in foreign govt.
                                                                    Sector pref.: foreign firm in China
                                                                                     Sector pref.: SOEs
                            D.3: Evaluation of government’s              Satisfaction of economic dev.
                                 performance                          Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                                      Satisfaction of domestic politics
                                                                       Sector pref.: entrepreneurship
                                                                      Satisfaction of diplomatic affairs
                                                          z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance
                                                                                 Location pref.: Beijing
                            D.6: Evaluation of democracy                      Location pref.: Shanghai
                                 and human rights protection     Living in democracy is not important
                                 in China                  Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                                                                 Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                            D.8: Willingness to act                  Willing to battle illegal govt. acts
                                                                  Location pref.: other cities in China
                                                                    Willing to report govt. misconduct
                                                                       Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                      Willing to stand up for the weak
                                                                                 Location pref.: Taiwan
                                                                             z-score: willingness to act
                                                                           Location pref.: foreign cities

                                                                                                              -1        0        1         2
                                                                    Purchase discounted tool we offered
                                                                                                             Standardized means (Control = 0)
                                                                                     Purchase any tool
                                                                               Access         Access + Encour.
                                         Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                                               Existing users
                                           Ranked high: foreign websites
                                    Ranked high: domestic social media
                                       Ranked high: foreign social media
Figure A.12: Comparison (continued) of  (standardized)
                                            Ranked         means
                                                    high: word  of in
                                                                   mouthendline survey outcomes, among stu-
dents in control group (Group-C, pooling C and CE students together), those who received only the access
treatment (Group-A), those whoFrequency
                                 receivedofboth    access
                                            visiting foreignand    encouragement
                                                             websites for   info.   treatments (Group-AE) and the
existing users. The mean level among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows 95 percent
confidence intervals calculated using robust of
                                    Frequency  standard
                                                  discussingerror   for friends
                                                              poli. with Group-AE students. Sample is restricted to
1,372 students who have completed the endline       survey.
                                            Frequency    of persuading others

                                                                                  A.55
                                                                       Protests concerning social issues
                                                                              Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                                          Complain to school authorities

                                                                Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.
                                                                                                    Purchase any tool

                                                                                   Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                                                    Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                                                Ranked high: domestic social media
                                                                                 Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                                                      Ranked high: word of mouth

                                                                      Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.




  E. Behaviors and planned behaviors
                                       E.1: Social interaction            Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                            in politics                           Frequency of persuading others

                                       E.2: Political participation                Protests concerning social issues
                                                                                          Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                                                      Complain to school authorities

                                       E.3: Investment in the Chinese
                                            stock market                   Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.


                                       E.4: Plan after graduation                         Plan: grad. school in China
                                                                                         Plan: master degree abroad
                                                                                           Plan: PhD degree abroad
                                                                                               Plan: military in China
                                                                                                Plan: work right away

                                       E.5: Career preferences                     Sector pref.: national civil service
                                                                                      Sector pref.: local civil service
                                                                                                 Sector pref.: military
                                                                                   Sector pref.: private firm in China
                                                                                   Sector pref.: foreign firm in China
                                                                                                   Sector pref.: SOEs
                                                                                    Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                                                     Sector pref.: entrepreneurship

                                                                                               Location pref.: Beijing
                                                                                            Location pref.: Shanghai
                                                                          Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                                                                                Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                                                 Location pref.: other cities in China
                                                                                      Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                                              Location pref.: Taiwan
                                                                                         Location pref.: foreign cities

                                                                                                                            -1        0        1         2
                                                                                                                           Standardized means (Control = 0)

                                                                                                                              Access           Access + Encour.
                                                                                                                              Existing users




Figure A.13: Comparison (continued) of (standardized) means in endline survey outcomes, among stu-
dents in control group (Group-C, pooling C and CE students together), those who received only the access
treatment (Group-A), those who received both access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE) and the
existing users. The mean level among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows 95 percent
confidence intervals calculated using robust standard error for Group-AE students. Sample is restricted to
1,372 students who have completed the endline survey.




                                                                                               A.56
                                                        Domestic cens. driven by corp. interest
                                                          Purchase discounted tool we offered
                                                      Domestic cens. driven by media’s ideology
                                                                             Purchase any tool
                                                      Domestic cens. driven by readers’ demand

                                                                Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                           Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies
                                                                  Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                           Foreign cens. driven by corp. interest
                                                            Ranked high: domestic social media
                                                        Foreign cens. driven by media’s ideology
                                                              Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                        Foreign cens. driven by readers’ demand
                                                                    Ranked high: word of mouth


                                                   Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.
                  B.2: Current news events             Steel production reduction reaches target




   B. Knowledge
                       not covered in the
                                                           Trump registered trademarks in China
                       demand treatment                 Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                                           Jianhua Xiao kidnapped in Hong Kong
                                                                  Frequency of persuading others
                                                        Xinjiang installed GPS on all automobiles
                                                            China and Norway re-normalize ties
                                                               Protests concerning social issues
                                                            Feminist groups fight women's rights
                                                                      Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                       Carrie Lam becomes HK Chief Executive
                                                                  Complain to school authorities
                                               % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news

                                                        Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.
                                                    China stops importing coal from North Korea
                                                                      H7N9 influenza epidemic
                                                                    Plan: grad. school in China
                                                              Transnational railway in Ethiopia
                                                                   Plan: master degree abroad
                                                          Foreign reserves fall below threshold
                                                                     Plan: PhD degree abroad
                                               % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news
                                                                         Plan: military in China
                                                                          Plan: work right away
                  B.4: Awareness of protests              2012 HK Anti-National Curr. Movement
                       and independence                            2014 HK Umbrella Revolution
                       movements                                Sector pref.: national civil service
                                                                  2016 HK Mong Kok Revolution
                                                                   Sector pref.: local civil service
                                                         2014 Taiwan Sunflower Stud. Movement
                                                                              Sector pref.: military
                                                            % protests in Greater China heard of
                                                                Sector pref.: private firm in China
                                                               Sector pref.: foreign firm in China
                                                          2014 Ukrainian Euromaidan Revolution
                                                                               Sector pref.: SOEs
                                                                                2010 Arab Spring
                                                                 Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                              2014 Crimean Status Referendum
                                                                  Sector pref.: entrepreneurship
                                                              2010 Catalonian Indep. Movement
                                                                            2017 Women's March
                                                                            Location pref.: Beijing
                                                                       % foreign protests heard of
                                                                         Location pref.: Shanghai
                                                       Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                                                                2011 Tomorrow Revolution [fake]
                                                             Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                               Location pref.: other cities in China
                  B.5: Self-assessment of                         Informedness of issues in China
                       knowledge level                               Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                Greater informedness than peers
                                                                             Location pref.: Taiwan
                                                     z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level
                                                                       Location pref.: foreign cities

                                                                                                        -.5           0           .5
                                                       Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China Standardized means (Control = 0)
                                                                   Guess on SSCI by end of 2016
                                                    z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy             Control + Encour.

                                                                 Confidence of China GDP guess
Figure A.14: Comparison of (standardized) means inConfidenceendline of survey    outcomes, among students in control
                                                                         SSCI guess
group (Group-C) and hose who received only the encouragementeconomy
                                z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese      treatment (Group-CE). The mean level
among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows 95 percent confidence intervals calculated
using robust standard error for Group-CE students.       Sample
                                               Guess on GDP       is rate
                                                             growth  restricted
                                                                          in 2016 to
                                                                                   US396 students who have completed
the endline survey.                                     Guess on DJI  by end  of 2016
                                                         z-score: optimistic belief of US economy


                                                                    Confidence of US GDP guess
                                                                          Confidence of DJI guess
                                                 z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy

                                                                      A.57
                                                                Economic system needs changes
                                                                  Political system needs changes
                                                         z-score: demand for institutional change
                                                                           Willing to battle illegal govt. acts
                                                                          2011 Tomorrow Revolution [fake]
                                                                          Willing to report govt. misconduct
                                                                            Willing to stand up for the weak
                                                                           Informedness of issues in China
                                                                                  z-score: willingness to act
                                                                          Greater informedness than peers
                                                               z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level

                                                                       Purchase discounted tool we offered
                           C.1: Belief on economic
                                                                                      Purchase any tool
                                                                 Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China




  C. Economic beliefs
                                performance in China                        Guess on SSCI by end of 2016
                                                                           Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                              z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy
                                                                             Ranked high: foreign websites
                           C.2: Confidence on guesses                Ranked high: domestic social media
                                                                        Confidence of China GDP guess
                                regarding economic                     Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                                              Confidence of SSCI guess
                                performance in China                         Ranked high: word of mouth
                                                    z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy

                                                             Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.
                           C.3: Belief on economic                 Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 US
                                performance in the US                         Guess on DJI by end of 2016
                                                                  Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                                                   z-score: optimistic belief of US economy
                                                                           Frequency of persuading others
                           C.4: Confidence on guesses                        Confidence of US GDP guess
                                regarding economic                        Protests concerning social issues
                                                                                   Confidence of DJI guess
                                performance in the US                            Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                           z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy
                                                                             Complain to school authorities


                                                                   Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.




  D. Political attitudes
                           D.1: Demand for institutional                 Economic system needs changes
                                change
                                                                            Political system needs changes
                                                                                 Plan: grad. school in China
                                                                   z-score: demand for institutional change
                                                                               Plan: master degree abroad
                           D.2: Trust in institutions                             Plan: PhD degree abroad
                                                                              Trust in central govt. of China
                                                                                      Plan: military in China
                                                                           Trust in provincial govt. of China
                                                                                       Plan: work right away
                                                                                Trust in local govt. of China
                                                                            z-score: trust in Chinese govt.
                                                                          Sector pref.: national civil service
                                                                             Sector pref.: local civil service
                                                                             Trust in central govt. of Japan
                                                                                        Sector pref.: military
                                                                                Trust in federal govt. of US
                                                                          Sector pref.: private firm in China
                                                                              z-score: trust in foreign govt.
                                                                          Sector pref.: foreign firm in China
                           D.3: Evaluation of government’s                               Sector pref.: SOEs
                                                                              Satisfaction of economic dev.
                                performance                                 Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                                            Satisfaction of domestic politics
                                                                             Sector pref.: entrepreneurship
                                                                            Satisfaction of diplomatic affairs
                                                                 z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance
                                                                                       Location pref.: Beijing
                           D.6: Evaluation of democracy
                                and human rights protection                        Location pref.: Shanghai
                                                                       Living in democracy is not important
                                in China                         Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                           D.8: Willingness to act                      Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                                           Willing to battle illegal govt. acts
                                                                         Location pref.: other cities in China
                                                                          Willing to report govt. misconduct
                                                                             Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                            Willing to stand up for the weak
                                                                                       Location pref.: Taiwan
                                                                                  z-score: willingness to act
                                                                                Location pref.: foreign cities

                                                                                                                    -.5          0            .5
                                                                       Purchase discounted tool we offered
                                                                                                                   Standardized means (Control = 0)
                                                                                           Purchase any tool
                                                                                                                           Control + Encour.
                                                                           Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                                             Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                                       Ranked high: domestic social media
Figure A.15: Comparison (continued) of (standardized) means in endline survey outcomes, among stu-
                                               Ranked high: foreign social media
dents in control group (Group-C) and hose who received only the encouragement treatment (Group-CE).
                                                      Ranked high: word of mouth
The mean level among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows 95 percent confidence inter-
vals calculated using robust standard error for Group-CE students. Sample is restricted to 396 students who
                                    Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.
have completed the endline survey.                     A.58
                                                                  Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                                                            Frequency of persuading others


                                                                          Protests concerning social issues
                                                                                  Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                                                 Purchase discounted tool we offered
                                                                                                     Purchase any tool


                                                                                      Ranked high: domestic websites
                                                                                        Ranked high: foreign websites
                                                                                  Ranked high: domestic social media
                                                                                    Ranked high: foreign social media
                                                                                          Ranked high: word of mouth


                                                                        Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.




  E. Behaviors and planned behaviors
                                       E.1: Social interaction              Frequency of discussing poli. with friends
                                            in politics                               Frequency of persuading others


                                       E.2: Political participation                  Protests concerning social issues
                                                                                            Plan to vote for local PCR
                                                                                        Complain to school authorities

                                       E.3: Investment in the Chinese
                                            stock market                     Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.


                                       E.4: Plan after graduation                          Plan: grad. school in China
                                                                                          Plan: master degree abroad
                                                                                             Plan: PhD degree abroad
                                                                                                 Plan: military in China
                                                                                                 Plan: work right away

                                       E.5: Career preferences                       Sector pref.: national civil service
                                                                                        Sector pref.: local civil service
                                                                                                   Sector pref.: military
                                                                                     Sector pref.: private firm in China
                                                                                     Sector pref.: foreign firm in China
                                                                                                    Sector pref.: SOEs
                                                                                       Sector pref.: inst. organizations
                                                                                        Sector pref.: entrepreneurship


                                                                                                 Location pref.: Beijing
                                                                                              Location pref.: Shanghai
                                                                            Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen
                                                                                  Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central
                                                                                   Location pref.: other cities in China
                                                                                        Location pref.: HK and Macau
                                                                                                 Location pref.: Taiwan
                                                                                           Location pref.: foreign cities

                                                                                                                              -.5          0            .5
                                                                                                                             Standardized means (Control = 0)

                                                                                                                                     Control + Encour.



Figure A.16: Comparison (continued) of (standardized) means in endline survey outcomes, among stu-
dents in control group (Group-C) and hose who received only the encouragement treatment (Group-CE).
The mean level among Group-C students is normalized as 0. Figure also shows 95 percent confidence inter-
vals calculated using robust standard error for Group-CE students. Sample is restricted to 396 students who
have completed the endline survey.




                                                                                          A.59
         Coefficient on Group-AE effect




               .6       .8     1        1.2

                          .4



                                              All subjects
                                                             Female vs. male                                                           Rural vs. urban
                                                                                                                                                         2nd tier vs. elite univ.
                                                                                                             Non-coastal vs. coastal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Altruism < vs. > median   Recipro. < vs. > median
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Not been vs. been abroad   Father below vs. above hs                                                                                                                                                                                                  Risk pref. < vs. > median   Time pref. < vs. > median
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mother below vs. above hs                                                                       HH income < vs. > median

A.60
                                                                               Lower class vs. upper class                                                                          Humanities vs. science track   Sc/Eng vs. SocS/Hum major                                                                           Not been vs. been to HK/TW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (E) behaviors < vs. > median
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Father not vs. is CCP member                                                                    Mother not vs. is CCP member                                                                                                                                                                             (B) knowledge < vs. > median
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Father not work vs. work for govt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (A) media-related < vs. > median                                                                        (D) pol. attitudes < vs. > median
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Not taken vs. taken TOEFL/IELTS                                                                                                                                                                                       Mother not work vs. work for govt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Not passed vs. at least Eng Level 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (C) economic beliefs < vs. > median




                                                               Personal                                                                                   Educational                                                                                    English ability &                                                                                                          Household                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fundamental                                                                                                 Baseline survey
                                                               characteristics                                                                            background                                                                                     Travel experience                                                                                                          characteristics                                                                                                                                                                                                       preferences                                                                                                 outcomes



       Figure A.17: Treatment effect of access and encuragement treatments combined (AE) on an z-score index that summarizes all 5 categories
       of outcomes of interests elicited at the endline survey (media-related behaviors, beliefs and attitudes; knowledge; economic beliefs; political
       attitudes; and behaviors and planned behaviors), estimated on all subjects and various sub-samples, pooling students from the control (C),
       control + encouragement (CE), and access (A) groups together as the omitted group in order to maximize the statistical power of heterogeneity
       analyses. Corresponding regression coefficients and the 95% confidence interval constructed from the robust standard error on the Group-
       AE indicator are shown. Subsample regression coefficients on the subgroups described before “vs.” are shown first in the coeffient pairs.
       Coefficients are estimated using 1,130 completed endline surveys from students who have not been using censorship circumvention product at
       the time of baseline survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tracking Xinjiang cars                          Panama Papers

                                                                                                                                                                           Jianhua Xiao kidnap                            2016 stock mkt crash
                 .4




                                                                                                                                                 Women rights activisits
                                                                                                                        China-Norway relations


   Social transmission rates: q

                                                                                             Trump trademark in China
                                         Steel prod. & pollution




                                                                   HK independence
                                                                                                                         HK CE election
                                        Censoring Economist


   0      .1      .2      .3



                 -.1
                                  .05              .1                                      .15                               .2            .25                                                                                         .3                        .35
                                                                                                                   Direct learning rate: p
                                                                                     Social transmission rate towards non-user: q(I=0)
                                                                                     Social transmission rate towards user: q(I=1)



Figure A.18: Estimated social transmission rates towards roommates who are not actively browsing foreign
news websites themselves (q( I = 0); red circle), and towards roommates who are actively browsing foreign
news websites (q( I = 1); blue diamond), across quizzes on 11 politically sensitive news events, ranked
by their estimated direct learning rates (p). Model parameters are jointly estimated with nonlinear least
square method. Estimation of social learning parameters is conducted on students who have completed
the corresponding wave of the survey, and have no roommates who were existing users of the censorship
circumvention tool prior to the baseline survey (November 2015), and have either 0 or 1 roommates who
are actively use censorship circumvention tool as a result of the experimental treatment.




                                                                                                                          A.61
                                                                   Panel A: among all participants
                  300                                                                                     20




  Time (sec) spent on news quizzes
                                                                                            # clicks on news quizzes




                                                                                                   14       16       18
        100             200
                                                                                                          12



                  0                                                                                       10
                                     Control   Access   Access + Encour.   Existing users                                 Control   Access   Access + Encour.   Existing users




                                               Panel B: among those who answered > half questions correctly
                  300                                                                                     20




  Time (sec) spent on news quizzes
                                                                                            # clicks on news quizzes




                                                                                                   14       16       18
        100             200
                                                                                                          12



                  0                                                                                       10
                                     Control   Access   Access + Encour.   Existing users                                 Control   Access   Access + Encour.   Existing users




Figure A.19: Time spent during midline survey (May 2016) modules on news quizzes, as well as the total
number of clicks recorded during the survey prior to submission, across students in the control (C), access
(A) and access + encouragement (AE) groups, and existing users. Panel A shows results among all 1,617
students who have completed midline survey; Panel B shows results, restricting the sample to students
who are able to answer more than half of the questions correctly.




                                                                                     A.62
                          .8
                                           Unincentivized          Incentivized
                                           encouragement          encouragement
                                               period                 period




             Cumulative activation rate




                .4               .6




                          .2
                                          2016-01       2016-02       2016-03     2016-04      2016-05

                                               Expiration date uninformed            Expiration date informed



Figure A.20: Cumulative rate of activating censorship circumvention tool over time, among students who
are randomly assigned with an explicitly mentioned deadline for their free subscription of censorship cir-
cumvention tool, and those to whom we did not explicitly mention the deadline. Activation is an indicator
equals 1 if students install the tool and use it at least once.




                                                                      A.63
                                                    Pre-treatment       If cost = 0         If cost > 0     If cost = 0
                                                     proportion     (current demand)     (encouragement) (encouragement)




     % students able to answer quiz correctly




   50     60      70      80     90      100


                                                0             20              40                60            80                 100
                                                          Proportion of students actively visit foreign news websites

                                                          Baseline                              If direct learning rate doubles
                                                          If no social learning                 If social transmission rate doubles


Figure A.21: Simulation of the proportion of students who can answer quiz on the Panama Papers cor-
rectly across the entire student population, as the proportion of students who actively visit foreign news
websites grows from 0 to 100%, with a set of alternative specifications related to the model parameters on
direct learning and social transmission of information. Details of the simulation procedure is described
in Appendix I.




                                                                                       A.64
                                                  Pre-treatment       If cost = 0         If cost > 0     If cost = 0




   % students able to answer quiz correctly
                                                   proportion     (current demand)     (encouragement) (encouragement)




   50    60     70      80    90      100


                                              0            20              40                60            80                100
                                                       Proportion of students actively visit foreign news websites

                                                            Baseline                               If no social learning
                                                            If diffuse in clusters                 If dorm size doubles
                                                            If targeted diffusion                  2nd degree transmission


Figure A.22: Simulation (continued) of the proportion of students who can answer quiz on the Panama Pa-
pers correctly across the entire student population, as the proportion of students who actively visit foreign
news websites grows from 0 to 100%, with a set of alternative specifications related to the diffusion process
of the access tool and the underlying social learning environment. Details of the simulation procedure is
described in Appendix I.




                                                                                     A.65
   % students able to answer quiz correctly
                                                  Pre-treatment       If cost = 0        If cost > 0     If cost = 0
                                                   proportion     (current demand)    (encouragement) (encouragement)




    50    60    70      80    90    100


                                              0             20              40                60            80                100
                                                        Proportion of students actively visit foreign news websites

                                                        Baseline                1 link               2 links            3 links
                                                        4 links                 5 links              6 links            7 links
                                                        8 links                 9 links              10 links           11 links
                                                        12 links                13 links


Figure A.23: Simulation (continued) of the proportion of students who can answer quiz on the Panama Pa-
pers correctly across the entire student population, as the proportion of students who actively visit foreign
news websites grows from 0 to 100%, with a set of alternative spefications that incorporate the full conversa-
tion networks among the student population. Details of the simulation procedure is described in Appendix
I.




                                                                                     A.66
                                                      Table A.1: Summary statistics & balance tests - baseline participants

                                                              All                 Exg users      C           CE           A       AE            ANOVA test
                                                     Mean           Std.Dev.       Mean        Mean         Mean        Mean     Mean       F-stat      p-value
       Variables:                                      (1)            (2)            (3)        (4)          (5)          (6)     (7)         (8)         (9)

       Category 1: Personal characteristics
       Male                                           0.559          0.497          0.598       0.543       0.575        0.582    0.524      1.272       0.282
       Birth year                                    1995.8          1.278         1995.8      1995.8      1995.8       1995.7   1995.8      0.980       0.401
       Height                                         170.1          9.311          170.6       169.1       170.2        170.4    169.8      0.874       0.454
       Han ethnicity                                  0.912          0.283          0.927       0.897       0.899        0.914    0.914      0.311       0.818
       Born in coastal province                       0.417          0.493          0.450       0.395       0.387        0.447    0.408      0.899       0.441
       Resided in coastal province                    0.444          0.497          0.480       0.395       0.412        0.492    0.434      2.033       0.107
       Urban hukou prior to college                   0.784          0.412          0.861       0.735       0.768        0.732    0.791      1.763       0.152
       Religious                                      0.066          0.248          0.045       0.054       0.085        0.080    0.063      0.945       0.418
       Member of CCP [at baseline]                   0.068           0.252         0.066       0.049        0.070        0.058    0.078      0.920       0.430
       z-score: personal characteristics             0.000           1.000         0.111       -0.140      -0.001       -0.036   -0.000      0.945       0.418

       Category 2: Educational background

A.67   Elite university                              0.825           0.380          0.973      0.827        0.765        0.789    0.795      0.950       0.415
       Science track in high school                  0.731           0.444          0.704      0.708        0.793        0.732    0.720      2.359       0.070
       SoSc./Hum. major at college                   0.450           0.498          0.469      0.449        0.475        0.435    0.435      0.523       0.666
       z-score: educational background               0.000           1.000          0.127      -0.061       0.128       -0.066   -0.080      3.276       0.020

       Category 3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
       At least Level 4 certi. in English            0.514           0.500          0.535      0.497        0.482        0.527   0.518       0.573       0.632
       Taken TOEFL or IELTS                          0.131           0.337          0.178      0.092        0.125        0.128   0.122       0.552       0.647
       z-score: English ability                      0.053           1.035          0.174      -0.046       0.001        0.064   0.040       0.565       0.638
       Traveled to HK, Macau, Taiwan                 0.185           0.388          0.275      0.135        0.162        0.160    0.177      0.653       0.581
       Traveled to foreign countries                 0.248           0.432          0.341      0.216        0.204        0.217    0.248      0.944       0.418
       z-score: oversea travel experiences           0.000           1.000          0.274      -0.125      -0.100       -0.084   -0.014      1.045       0.371

       Category 4: Household characteristics
       Total # siblings                              0.535           1.103          0.393      0.638        0.616        0.521   0.545       0.700       0.552
       Father educ. above hs.                        0.676           0.468          0.743      0.638        0.670        0.665   0.660       0.200       0.897
       Father works related to govt.                 0.493           0.500          0.511      0.481        0.497        0.482   0.489       0.061       0.980
       Father member of CCP                          0.428           0.495          0.420      0.373        0.445        0.387   0.458       2.445       0.062
       Mother educ. above hs.                        0.605           0.489          0.671      0.616        0.588        0.594   0.582       0.248       0.863
                                                                                                                                          Continued on next page
                                                         All              Exg users        C          CE           A          AE           ANOVA test
                                                Mean           Std.Dev.    Mean          Mean        Mean        Mean        Mean       F-stat       p-value
       Variables:                                 (1)            (2)         (3)          (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)          (9)

       Mother works related to govt.             0.486           0.500      0.529        0.470       0.497       0.486       0.465      0.349         0.790
       Mother member of CCP                      0.225           0.418      0.236        0.157       0.229       0.233       0.234      1.794         0.146
       Total hh income in 2015                  147856          187049     180763       146703      136738      142029      139842      0.130         0.942
       z-score: household characteristics        0.000           1.000      0.033       -0.022       0.040      -0.043      -0.010      0.379         0.768

       Category 5: Fundamental preferences
       Willingness to take risk                  5.678          1.948       5.888        5.838        5.576      5.527        5.649     1.074         0.359
       Cert. equiv. of lottery choices           11.43          5.963       11.94        10.76        11.73      11.94        10.98     2.809         0.038
       Prefer risky lottery options              3.595          1.272       3.604        3.486        3.588      3.693        3.578     1.108         0.345
       z-score: risk preferences                 0.000          1.000       0.096        -0.047      -0.002      0.024       -0.046     0.402         0.751
       Willingness to wait for future            6.028          2.162       6.281        5.865        6.061       5.933      5.974      0.364         0.779
       Tendency not to procrastinate             5.107          2.895       5.151        5.065        5.018       4.971      5.208      0.601         0.614
       z-score: time preferences                 0.000          1.000       0.097        -0.066      -0.011      -0.067      0.007      0.522         0.667
       Willingness to give to good causes       6.919           2.264      6.792        7.005       7.037       6.895        6.912      0.320         0.810
       Amount willing to donate                 2608.7          2329.8     2458.4       2692.7      2786.9      2657.7      2547.9      0.780         0.505
A.68   z-score: altruism                        0.000           1.000      -0.075       0.046       0.080       0.006       -0.018      0.758         0.518
       Willingness to return favor               8.868          1.276      8.677         8.908        8.973       8.920      8.877      0.415         0.742
       Belief that others are well-intended      5.822          2.650      5.414         6.178        5.729       5.764      6.005      1.724         0.160
       Willingness to give thank-you gift        5.364          1.254      5.356         5.611        5.360       5.339      5.311      2.837         0.037
       Punish who treat self unfairly            5.442          2.432      5.571         5.384        5.485       5.403      5.391      0.125         0.945
       Punish who treat others unfairly          4.572          2.322      4.637         4.514        4.549       4.629      4.538      0.137         0.938
       Willingness to take revenge               3.507          2.364      3.634         3.616        3.287       3.476      3.538      1.052         0.368
       z-score: reciprocity                      0.000          1.000      -0.087        0.160       -0.021      -0.010      0.014      1.454         0.225

       # of obs.                                         1807               331           185         328         313         650         –            –
                    Notes: ANOVA tests are conducted against the null hypothesis that corresponding characteristics of Group-N, Group-A, Group-NE,
                    and Group-AE are not different from each other. Sample are restricted to 1,807 students who have completed baseline survey.
                                                       Table A.2: Summary statistics & balance tests - midline participants

                                                              All                 Exg users      C           CE           A       AE            ANOVA test
                                                     Mean           Std.Dev.       Mean        Mean         Mean         Mean    Mean       F-stat      p-value
       Variables:                                      (1)            (2)            (3)         (4)         (5)          (6)     (7)         (8)         (9)

       Category 1: Personal characteristics
       Male                                           0.561          0.496          0.602       0.522        0.591       0.579   0.524       1.631       0.180
       Birth year                                    1995.8          1.261         1995.9      1995.9       1995.8      1995.7   1995.8      0.874       0.454
       Height                                         170.0          9.407          170.8       168.6        170.2       170.3   169.8       1.204       0.307
       Han ethnicity                                  0.910          0.287          0.925       0.894        0.895       0.913   0.912       0.396       0.756
       Born in coastal province                       0.412          0.492          0.441       0.412        0.378       0.450    0.396      1.173       0.319
       Resided in coastal province                    0.439          0.496          0.474       0.406        0.401       0.491   0.423       1.987       0.114
       Urban hukou prior to college                   0.782          0.413          0.856       0.753        0.757       0.720   0.796       2.135       0.094
       Religious                                      0.069          0.253          0.046       0.059        0.089       0.080   0.068       0.670       0.571
       Member of CCP [at baseline]                    0.066          0.248         0.062        0.041        0.072       0.052   0.078       1.396       0.242
       z-score: personal characteristics             -0.002          1.010          0.103      -0.137       -0.005      -0.061   0.013       1.046       0.371

       Category 2: Educational background

A.69   Elite university                              0.835           0.371          0.971      0.835        0.776        0.803    0.810      0.890       0.446
       Science track in high school                  0.730           0.444          0.709      0.694        0.789        0.716    0.726      2.277       0.078
       SoSc./Hum. major at college                   0.449           0.498          0.468      0.470        0.470        0.437    0.426      0.674       0.568
       z-score: educational background               0.005           0.994          0.136      -0.043       0.122       -0.085   -0.069      2.781       0.040

       Category 3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
       At least Level 4 certi. in English             0.511          0.500          0.526       0.488        0.480       0.519    0.524      0.627       0.598
       Taken TOEFL or IELTS                           0.130          0.336          0.180       0.100        0.121       0.128    0.117      0.284       0.837
       z-score: English ability                      -0.005          1.004          0.107      -0.090       -0.059       0.001   -0.014      0.448       0.719
       Traveled to HK, Macau, Taiwan                  0.182          0.386          0.281       0.135        0.155       0.159    0.170      0.407       0.748
       Traveled to foreign countries                  0.241          0.428          0.327       0.212        0.191       0.218    0.243      1.069       0.361
       z-score: oversea travel experiences           -0.014          0.992          0.264      -0.131       -0.130      -0.084   -0.032      0.921       0.430

       Category 4: Household characteristics
       Total # siblings                              0.539           1.094          0.402       0.600       0.612        0.550   0.549       0.274       0.844
       Father educ. above hs.                        0.678           0.467          0.745       0.647       0.668        0.671   0.661       0.109       0.955
       Father works related to govt.                 0.486           0.500          0.510       0.482       0.493        0.464   0.482       0.179       0.911
       Father member of CCP                          0.427           0.495          0.418       0.376       0.454        0.377   0.460       2.670       0.046
       Mother educ. above hs.                        0.603           0.489          0.673       0.612       0.586        0.581   0.582       0.174       0.914
                                                                                                                                          Continued on next page
                                                         All              Exg users        C          CE           A          AE           ANOVA test
                                                Mean           Std.Dev.    Mean          Mean        Mean        Mean        Mean       F-stat       p-value
       Variables:                                 (1)            (2)         (3)          (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)          (9)

       Mother works related to govt.             0.484           0.500      0.536        0.471       0.500       0.467       0.458      0.470         0.703
       Mother member of CCP                      0.220           0.414      0.239        0.153       0.230       0.215       0.226      1.571         0.195
       Total hh income in 2015                  145759          184540     176805       147088      134605      139247      137632      0.183         0.908
       z-score: household characteristics       -0.008           0.994      0.036       -0.043       0.036      -0.058      -0.020      0.480         0.696

       Category 5: Fundamental preferences
       Willingness to take risk                  5.672          1.949       5.846         5.824      5.586       5.526        5.651     0.889         0.446
       Cert. equiv. of lottery choices           11.33          5.928       11.94         10.33      11.69       12.02        10.75     4.598         0.003
       Prefer risky lottery options              3.603          1.265       3.614         3.465      3.612       3.713        3.577     1.487         0.216
       z-score: risk preferences                -0.007          1.002       0.089        -0.091      0.006       0.036       -0.062     0.906         0.437
       Willingness to wait for future            6.053          2.160       6.222        5.841       6.141        5.965      6.020      0.757         0.518
       Tendency not to procrastinate             5.119          2.918       5.095        5.053       5.053        5.042      5.232      0.419         0.739
       z-score: time preferences                 0.012          0.998       0.063        -0.077      0.025       -0.038      0.029      0.690         0.558
       Willingness to give to good causes       6.929           2.259      6.804        7.000       6.997        6.886       6.964      0.150         0.930
       Amount willing to donate                 2598.2          2311.8     2469.4       2665.6      2833.5      2582.1      2527.1      1.152         0.327
A.70   z-score: altruism                        0.000           0.998      -0.069       0.037       0.081       -0.016      -0.010      0.676         0.567
       Willingness to return favor               8.868          1.264      8.680         8.953        8.970       8.886      8.880      0.443         0.723
       Belief that others are well-intended      5.819          2.667      5.435         6.171        5.714       5.758      6.015      1.672         0.171
       Willingness to give thank-you gift        5.364          1.247      5.373         5.665        5.359       5.318      5.292      4.059         0.007
       Punish who treat self unfairly            5.465          2.437      5.595         5.406        5.523       5.384      5.422      0.188         0.904
       Punish who treat others unfairly          4.572          2.324      4.611         4.488        4.592       4.606      4.547      0.113         0.952
       Willingness to take revenge               3.534          2.361      3.696         3.635        3.306       3.439      3.589      1.179         0.317
       z-score: reciprocity                      0.006          1.002      -0.067        0.193       -0.014      -0.036      0.022      2.029         0.108

       # of obs.                                         1617               306           170         304         289         548         –            –
                    Notes: ANOVA tests are conducted against the null hypothesis that corresponding characteristics of Group-C, Group-CE, Group-A,
                    and Group-AE are not different from each other. Sample are restricted to 1,617 students who have completed midline survey.
                                                       Table A.3: Summary statistics & balance tests - endline participants

                                                              All                 Exg users      C           CE               A    AE            ANOVA test
                                                     Mean           Std.Dev.       Mean        Mean         Mean         Mean     Mean       F-stat      p-value
       Variables:                                      (1)            (2)            (3)         (4)         (5)          (6)      (7)         (8)         (9)

       Category 1: Personal characteristics
       Male                                           0.562          0.496          0.630       0.512        0.579       0.597     0.517      1.952       0.119
       Birth year                                    1995.8          1.262         1995.9      1995.9       1995.8      1995.7    1995.8      1.364       0.252
       Height                                         169.9          8.951          170.6       168.0        170.3       170.4     169.6      2.439       0.063
       Han ethnicity                                  0.914          0.280          0.921       0.898        0.896       0.922     0.920      0.647       0.585
       Born in coastal province                       0.415          0.492          0.438       0.372        0.398       0.471     0.398      1.685       0.168
       Resided in coastal province                    0.439          0.496          0.474       0.358        0.413       0.512     0.420      3.399       0.017
       Urban hukou prior to college                   0.771          0.420          0.835       0.752        0.764       0.705     0.781      1.775       0.150
       Religious                                      0.066          0.249          0.050       0.058        0.093       0.061     0.065      0.922       0.430
       Member of CCP [at baseline]                    0.064          0.245         0.058        0.044        0.066       0.057     0.076      0.706       0.549
       z-score: personal characteristics             -0.016          1.013          0.106      -0.164       -0.004      -0.083    -0.009      1.014       0.386

       Category 2: Educational background

A.71   Elite university                               0.823          0.382          0.971       0.810       0.784         0.779    0.796      0.227       0.878
       Science track in high school                   0.739          0.439          0.723       0.722       0.807         0.738    0.716      2.573       0.053
       SoSc./Hum. major at college                    0.426          0.495          0.420       0.394       0.461         0.413    0.425      0.661       0.576
       z-score: educational background               -0.028          0.980          0.086      -0.140       0.157        -0.112   -0.109      4.830       0.002

       Category 3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
       At least Level 4 certi. in English             0.509          0.500          0.488       0.504        0.471       0.537     0.527      0.929       0.426
       Taken TOEFL or IELTS                           0.122          0.327          0.153       0.088        0.112       0.139     0.112      0.829       0.478
       z-score: English ability                      -0.023          0.986          0.008      -0.094       -0.089       0.045    -0.019      1.020       0.383
       Traveled to HK, Macau, Taiwan                  0.176          0.381          0.264       0.131        0.135        0.164    0.171      0.825       0.480
       Traveled to foreign countries                  0.238          0.426          0.306       0.198        0.197        0.238    0.239      0.847       0.468
       z-score: oversea travel experiences           -0.029          0.988          0.208      -0.158       -0.152       -0.048   -0.035      1.268       0.284

       Category 4: Household characteristics
       Total # siblings                              0.536           1.071          0.393       0.628       0.644        0.549    0.518       0.920       0.431
       Father educ. above hs.                        0.671           0.470          0.727       0.620       0.668        0.648    0.669       0.457       0.712
       Father works related to govt.                 0.491           0.500          0.521       0.474       0.502        0.463    0.488       0.278       0.841
       Father member of CCP                          0.432           0.496          0.409       0.372       0.471        0.373    0.469       3.253       0.021
       Mother educ. above hs.                        0.593           0.491          0.657       0.606       0.587        0.566    0.576       0.224       0.880
                                                                                                                                           Continued on next page
                                                            All               Exg users         C           CE            A           AE             ANOVA test
                                                   Mean           Std.Dev.      Mean          Mean         Mean         Mean         Mean        F-stat        p-value
       Variables:                                   (1)             (2)          (3)            (4)          (5)          (6)          (7)         (8)           (9)

       Mother works related to govt.               0.477            0.500       0.524          0.481        0.494       0.471        0.447        0.566         0.638
       Mother member of CCP                        0.216            0.412       0.223          0.124        0.231       0.209        0.233        2.713         0.044
       Total hh income in 2015                    143807           185257      177903         139891       135338      137725       135566        0.029         0.993
       z-score: household characteristics         -0.018            0.967       0.010         -0.067        0.068      -0.077       -0.035        1.106         0.346

       Category 5: Fundamental preferences
       Willingness to take risk                     5.614          1.957        5.847          5.818        5.537       5.475         5.553       0.951         0.415
       Cert. equiv. of lottery choices              11.42          6.003        12.15          11.00        11.83       12.13         10.61       4.370         0.005
       Prefer risky lottery options                 3.595          1.272        3.620          3.526        3.537       3.717         3.573       1.111         0.343
       z-score: risk preferences                   -0.017          1.008        0.109         -0.011       -0.023       0.031        -0.101       1.025         0.381
       Willingness to wait for future               6.020          2.176        6.244          5.978        6.019        5.898       5.982        0.138         0.938
       Tendency not to procrastinate                5.106          2.909        5.041          5.102        5.019        5.107       5.184        0.185         0.907
       z-score: time preferences                   -0.003          0.995        0.057         -0.018       -0.025       -0.044       0.004        0.136         0.939
       Willingness to give to good causes          6.921           2.251        6.690          6.927       7.077         6.930        6.843       0.616         0.604
       Amount willing to donate                   2627.8           2311.4      2582.4         2643.6       2888.0       2575.0       2534.5       1.362         0.253
A.72   z-score: altruism                          -0.025           0.979       -0.043         -0.020       0.085        -0.037       -0.071       1.462         0.223
       Willingness to return favor                 8.871           1.281        8.719         8.927        8.985         8.889       8.863        0.530         0.661
       Belief that others are well-intended        5.845           2.672        5.455         6.277        5.726         5.820       5.994        1.498         0.213
       Willingness to give thank-you gift          5.390           1.238        5.430         5.730        5.390         5.299       5.320        4.377         0.005
       Punish who treat self unfairly              5.453           2.477        5.488         5.547        5.598         5.348       5.383        0.640         0.589
       Punish who treat others unfairly            4.542           2.330        4.463         4.460        4.552         4.705       4.518        0.448         0.718
       Willingness to take revenge                 3.513           2.370        3.591         3.679        3.286         3.574       3.518        1.043         0.373
       z-score: reciprocity                        0.014           1.007        -0.071        0.246        0.005        -0.007       0.006        2.302         0.076

       # of obs.                                            1372                 242           137          259          244          490           –            –
                    Notes: Sample contains students who have completed both baseline (November 2015) and endline (April 2017) surveys. Mean level
                    of each characteristics are reported in column 1 for all participants (and column 2 for corresponding standard deviation), column
                    3 for students who use censorship circumvention tools prior to the baseline survey, column 4 for students in the control group (C),
                    column 5 for students in the control + encouragement group (CE), column 6 for students in the access group (A), and column 7 for
                    students in the access + encouragement group (AE). For each characteristic, an ANOVA test is conducted against the null hypothe-
                    sis that students in the control, control + encouragement, access, and access + encouragement groups are not jointly different from
                    each other in term of this characteristic. Column 8 and 9 report the corresponding F-statistics and p-value for each test, respectively.
                                                               Table A.4: Attrition in midline and endline surveys

                                                                     Completed baseline survey        Completed midline survey       Completed endline survey
                                                                     Mean          Std.Dev.         Mean       Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean       Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                                        (1)          (2)             (3)        (4)        (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)


       Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes
       Category A.1: Information source and media consumption
       Ranked high: domestic websites                                2.759           0.852           2.747      0.851      0.668    2.735       0.849       0.422
       Ranked high: foreign websites                                 4.547           0.819           4.543      0.821      0.882    4.557       0.809       0.731
       Ranked high: domestic social media                            2.821           0.849           2.834      0.851      0.644    2.840       0.843       0.531
       Ranked high: word of mouth                                    3.873           0.799           3.876      0.800      0.906    3.868       0.801       0.875
       Freq. of visiting foreign websites for info.                  3.009           1.654           3.020      1.655      0.862    3.048       1.650       0.337

       Category A.3: Valuation of access to foreign media outlets
       Willingness to pay for circumvention tool                     23.90           19.51           24.12      19.63      0.741     23.68      19.56       0.748
       Value added of foreign media access                           5.938           1.805           5.939      1.805      0.990     5.886      1.813       0.425
A.73   z-score: valuation of access to foreign media outlets         0.000           1.000           0.008      1.001      0.820    -0.027      1.008       0.460

       Category A.4: Trust in media outlets
       Distrust of domestic state-owned media                        4.830           2.374           4.846      2.363      0.845     4.798      2.368       0.706
       Distrust in domestic privately-owned media                    4.306           2.054           4.327      2.048      0.764     4.287      2.042       0.797
       Trust in foreign media                                        6.124           1.836           6.127      1.860      0.957     6.119      1.838       0.938
       z-score: trust in non-domestic media outlets                  0.000           1.000           0.012      1.009      0.735    -0.014      0.995       0.690

       Category A.5: Belief regarding level of actual media censorship
       Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets                 7.474           1.727           7.479      1.733      0.933    7.440       1.738       0.581
       Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets                  5.898           1.974           5.881      1.974      0.795    5.934       1.956       0.607

       Category A.6: Justification of media censorship
       Unjustified: censoring economic news                          4.403           2.216           4.424      2.227      0.784     4.399      2.235       0.953
       Unjustified: censoring political news                         5.577           2.784           5.623      2.770      0.623     5.558      2.781       0.854
       Unjustified: censoring social news                            5.546           2.769           5.575      2.761      0.765     5.526      2.769       0.840
       Unjustified: censoring foreign news                           5.450           2.783           5.427      2.811      0.809     5.407      2.812       0.667
       z-score: censorship unjustified                               0.000           1.000           0.006      1.007      0.871    -0.014      1.005       0.705

                                                                                                                                             Continued on next page
                                                                    Completed baseline survey   Completed midline survey      Completed endline survey
                                                                    Mean         Std.Dev.       Mean    Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean      Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                                    (1)               (2)       (3)      (4)        (5)      (6)        (7)         (8)

       Category A.7: Belief regarding drivers of media censorship
       Domestic cens. driven by govt. policies                      0.893             0.309     0.893    0.310      0.989    0.890      0.313       0.774
       Domestic cens. driven by corp. interest                      0.035             0.184     0.034    0.180      0.815    0.032      0.175       0.587
       Domestic cens. driven by media’s ideology                    0.035             0.184     0.037    0.188      0.797    0.038      0.190       0.725
       Domestic cens. driven by readers’ demand                     0.037             0.188     0.037    0.188      0.997    0.041      0.199       0.529
       Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies                       0.271             0.445     0.276    0.447      0.775    0.287      0.452       0.349
       Foreign cens. driven by corp. interest                       0.249             0.432     0.244    0.430      0.760    0.240      0.427       0.590
       Foreign cens. driven by media’s ideology                     0.328             0.470     0.330    0.470      0.889    0.328      0.470       0.968
       Foreign cens. driven by readers’ demand                      0.152             0.359     0.150    0.357      0.864    0.145      0.352       0.562


       Panel B: Knowledge
       Category B.2: Current news events not covered in the encouragement treatment
       Shanghai’s unprecedented stock market crash                  0.660             0.474     0.656    0.475      0.773    0.659      0.474       0.938
A.74   Chinese invested railroad projects in Brazil and Peru        0.447             0.497     0.450    0.498      0.857    0.457      0.498       0.581
       Presidential election in Taiwan                              0.693             0.461     0.696    0.460      0.856    0.697      0.460       0.812
       China and US’s cooperation on Internet                       0.366             0.482     0.370    0.483      0.834    0.374      0.484       0.662
       % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news           0.619             0.357     0.622    0.356      0.794    0.623      0.356       0.781
       RMB depreciation to simulate export                          0.292             0.455     0.290    0.454      0.890    0.293      0.455       0.961
       PLA troop cuts by 300,000                                    0.871             0.335     0.870    0.336      0.936    0.872      0.334       0.908
       Li Ka-shing’s investment in Mainland China                   0.546             0.498     0.549    0.498      0.837    0.549      0.498       0.859
       Nanking Massacre anniversary                                 0.775             0.418     0.770    0.421      0.737    0.778      0.416       0.844
       % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news              0.569             0.184     0.568    0.184      0.873    0.572      0.183       0.591

       Category B.3: Awareness of protests and independence movements
       2012 HK Anti-National Curr. Movement                         0.133             0.339     0.134    0.341      0.906    0.134      0.341       0.915
       2014 HK Umbrella Revolution                                  0.184             0.388     0.182    0.386      0.889    0.176      0.381       0.531
       2014 Taiwan Sunflower Stud. Movement                         0.436             0.496     0.432    0.495      0.820    0.426      0.495       0.578
       % protests in Greater China heard of                         0.251             0.297     0.249    0.298      0.887    0.245      0.296       0.590
       2014 Ukrainian Euromaidan Revolution                         0.283             0.451     0.281    0.450      0.899    0.274      0.446       0.563
       2010 Arab Spring                                             0.686             0.464     0.685    0.465      0.947    0.682      0.466       0.836
       2014 Crimean Status Referendum                               0.770             0.421     0.771    0.420      0.953    0.771      0.420       0.958
       2010 Catalonian Indep. Movement                              0.233             0.423     0.233    0.423      0.991    0.224      0.417       0.573
                                                                                                                                     Continued on next page
                                                                 Completed baseline survey    Completed midline survey      Completed endline survey
                                                                 Mean           Std.Dev.     Mean     Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean       Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                                  (1)                (2)     (3)       (4)        (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)

       % foreign protests heard of                                0.493              0.284   0.493     0.287      0.959    0.488       0.285       0.616
       2011 Tomorrow Revolution [fake]                            0.094              0.292   0.096     0.294      0.859    0.091       0.288       0.775

       Category B.5: Self-assessment of knowledge level
       Informedness of issues in China                            4.314              1.963   4.340     1.963      0.708     4.317      1.935       0.969
       Greater informedness than peers                            4.110              1.786   4.118     1.796      0.897     4.097      1.776       0.843
       z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level                0.000              1.000   0.010     1.005      0.768    -0.003      0.989       0.926


       Panel C: Economic beliefs
       Category C.1: Belief on economic performance in China
       Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China                     7.019              3.004    7.045    3.091      0.809     7.028      3.071       0.938
       Guess of SSCI by end of 2016                              3255.1              623.3   3255.5    622.2      0.985    3267.2      611.9       0.586
       z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy             0.000               1.000   0.006     1.009      0.853    0.016       1.015       0.665
A.75
       Category C.2: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in China
       Confidence of China GDP guess                              4.546              2.430   4.556     2.414      0.906    4.539       2.409       0.937
       Confidence of SSCI guess                                   2.486              2.129   2.487     2.124      0.984    2.501       2.132       0.846
       z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy          0.000              1.000   0.003     0.992      0.938    0.002       0.995       0.948


       Panel D: Political attitudes
       Category D.1: Demand for institutional change
       Economic system needs changes                              5.236              1.973   5.215     1.966      0.754     5.154      2.003       0.246
       Political system needs changes                             5.411              2.172   5.388     2.174      0.759     5.317      2.178       0.230
       z-score: demand for institutional change                   0.000              1.000   -0.012    1.003      0.727    -0.048      1.017       0.185

       Category D.2: Trust in institutions
       Trust in central govt. of China                            6.918              2.114   6.885     2.132      0.654    6.960       2.112       0.576
       Trust in provincial govt. of China                         6.069              2.140   6.049     2.155      0.788    6.103       2.153       0.650
       Trust in local govt. of China                              5.079              2.239   5.074     2.236      0.948    5.128       2.247       0.536
       z-score: trust in Chinese govt.                            0.000              1.000   -0.010    1.006      0.774    0.024       1.000       0.498
                                                                                                                                    Continued on next page
                                                                 Completed baseline survey      Completed midline survey      Completed endline survey
                                                                  Mean              Std.Dev.   Mean     Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean       Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                                  (1)                (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)

       Trust in central govt. of Japan                            3.926              2.406     3.925     2.417      0.988     3.919      2.403       0.932
       Trust in federal govt. of US                               4.958              2.232     4.967     2.242      0.910     4.961      2.224       0.966
       z-score: trust in foreign govt.                            0.000              1.000     0.002     1.005      0.958    -0.001      0.998       0.982

       Category D.3: Evaluation of government’s performance
       Satisfaction of economic dev.                              5.975              1.788     5.967     1.783      0.897    6.005       1.790       0.639
       Satisfaction of domestic politics                          5.895              2.132     5.876     2.147      0.794    5.924       2.145       0.701
       Satisfaction of diplomatic affairs                         6.638              1.810     6.626     1.818      0.859    6.657       1.816       0.759
       z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance                0.000              1.000     -0.008    1.004      0.826    0.016       1.004       0.649

       Category D.6: Evaluation of democracy and human rights protection in China
       Living in democracy is not important                       3.142              2.125     3.134     2.113      0.905    3.160       2.145       0.820

       Category D.8: Willingness to act

A.76   Willing to battle illegal govt. acts                       6.027              2.518     6.072     2.499      0.594    6.040       2.517       0.881
       Willing to report govt. misconduct                         5.100              2.432     5.124     2.430      0.772    5.090       2.414       0.910
       Willing to stand up for the weak                           5.851              2.201     5.882     2.196      0.672    5.846       2.192       0.956
       z-score: willingness to act                                0.000              1.000     0.018     0.996      0.603    0.000       0.988       0.989


       Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors
       Category E.1: Social interaction in politics
       Frequency of discussing poli. with friends                 3.861              2.340     3.888     2.337      0.736    3.867       2.332       0.940
       Frequency of persuading others                             5.560              2.567     5.547     2.566      0.885    5.582       2.562       0.814

       Category E.2: Political participation
       Protests concerning social issues                          0.053              0.223     0.055     0.228      0.749    0.054       0.226       0.865
       Plan to vote for local PCR                                 0.189              0.392     0.186     0.389      0.780    0.185       0.389       0.768
       Complain to school authorities                             0.198              0.399     0.201     0.401      0.834    0.204       0.403       0.678

       Category E.3: Investment in the Chinese stock market
       Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.                   0.055              0.228     0.057     0.232      0.792    0.052       0.222       0.737

                                                                                                                                      Continued on next page
                                                            Completed baseline survey    Completed midline survey      Completed endline survey
                                                            Mean          Std.Dev.      Mean     Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean       Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                            (1)            (2)          (3)       (4)        (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)

       Category E.4: Plan after graduation
       Plan: grad. school in China                          0.491          0.500        0.485     0.500      0.713    0.504       0.500       0.473
       Plan: master degree abroad                           0.231          0.422        0.234     0.423      0.835    0.228       0.419       0.827
       Plan: PhD degree abroad                              0.114          0.318        0.115     0.319      0.968    0.107       0.309       0.504
       Plan: military in China                              0.005          0.067        0.004     0.062      0.739    0.005       0.072       0.789
       Plan: work right away                                0.102          0.302        0.103     0.305      0.884    0.100       0.300       0.868

       Category E.5: Career preferences
       Sector pref.: national civil service                 0.276          0.447        0.277     0.448      0.924    0.281       0.450       0.717
       Sector pref.: local civil service                    0.051          0.220        0.052     0.222      0.889    0.053       0.224       0.792
       Sector pref.: military                               0.065          0.247        0.067     0.249      0.862    0.064       0.245       0.924
       Sector pref.: private firm in China                  0.428          0.495        0.424     0.494      0.807    0.418       0.493       0.569
       Sector pref.: foreign firm in China                  0.692          0.462        0.692     0.462      0.987    0.683       0.465       0.577
       Sector pref.: SOEs                                   0.441          0.497        0.438     0.496      0.878    0.445       0.497       0.844
       Sector pref.: inst. organizations                    0.559          0.497        0.563     0.496      0.817    0.559       0.497       0.982
A.77   Sector pref.: entrepreneurship                       0.390          0.488        0.386     0.487      0.797    0.388       0.487       0.897
       Location pref.: Beijing                              0.324          0.468        0.315     0.464      0.571    0.322       0.468       0.939
       Location pref.: Shanghai                             0.131          0.337        0.135     0.342      0.728    0.133       0.339       0.882
       Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen               0.055          0.229        0.054     0.227      0.896    0.049       0.216       0.435
       Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central             0.039          0.194        0.039     0.194      0.977    0.044       0.205       0.497
       Location pref.: other cities in China                0.273          0.446        0.273     0.446      0.967    0.276       0.447       0.830
       Location pref.: HK and Macau                         0.020          0.139        0.019     0.137      0.864    0.017       0.130       0.584
       Location pref.: Taiwan                               0.008          0.092        0.009     0.094      0.908    0.008       0.090       0.928
       Location pref.: foreign cities                       0.150          0.357        0.156     0.363      0.646    0.150       0.358       0.973


       Panel F: Demographics, background characteristics, and fundamental preferences
       Category F.1: Personal characteristics
       Male                                                 0.559          0.497         0.561    0.496      0.902    0.562       0.496       0.843
       Birth year                                           1995.8         1.278        1995.8    1.262      0.667    1995.8      1.262       0.696
       Height                                                170.1         9.311         170.0    9.407      0.867     169.9      8.951       0.576
       Han ethnicity                                         0.912         0.283         0.910    0.287      0.814     0.914      0.280       0.844
       Born in coastal province                              0.417         0.493         0.412    0.492      0.777     0.415      0.493       0.918
       Resided in coastal province                           0.444         0.497         0.439    0.496      0.755     0.439      0.496       0.753
                                                                                                                               Continued on next page
                                                                      Completed baseline survey    Completed midline survey      Completed endline survey
                                                                      Mean          Std.Dev.      Mean     Std.Dev.   p-value   Mean       Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                                       (1)           (2)          (3)       (4)        (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)

       Urban hukou prior to college                                    0.784         0.412        0.782     0.413      0.892     0.771      0.420       0.402
       Religious                                                       0.066         0.248        0.069     0.253      0.745     0.066      0.249       0.958
       Member of CCP [at baseline]                                     0.068         0.252        0.066     0.248      0.769     0.064      0.245       0.660
       z-score: personal characteristics                               0.000         1.000        -0.002    1.010      0.958    -0.016      1.013       0.670

       Category F.2: Educational background
       Elite university                                                0.825         0.380        0.835     0.371      0.396     0.823      0.382       0.902
       Science track in high school                                    0.731         0.444        0.730     0.444      0.932     0.739      0.439       0.612
       SoSc./Hum. major at college                                     0.450         0.498        0.449     0.498      0.931     0.426      0.495       0.176
       z-score: educational background                                 0.000         1.000        0.005     0.994      0.875    -0.028      0.980       0.441

       Category F.3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
       At least Level 4 certi. in English                              0.514         0.500        0.511     0.500      0.876     0.509      0.500       0.764
       Taken TOEFL or IELTS                                            0.131         0.337        0.130     0.336      0.949     0.122      0.327       0.456
       z-score: English ability                                        0.000         1.000        -0.005    1.004      0.890    -0.023      0.986       0.512
A.78   Traveled to HK, Macau, Taiwan                                   0.185         0.389        0.182     0.386      0.856     0.176      0.381       0.506
       Traveled to foreign countries                                   0.248         0.432        0.241     0.428      0.621     0.238      0.426       0.510
       z-score: oversea travel experiences                             0.000         1.000        -0.014    0.992      0.678    -0.029      0.988       0.416

       Category F.4: Household characteristics
       Total # siblings                                                0.535         1.103         0.539    1.094      0.926     0.536      1.071       0.973
       Father educ. above hs.                                          0.676         0.468         0.678    0.467      0.866     0.671      0.470       0.759
       Father works related to govt.                                   0.493         0.500         0.486    0.500      0.707     0.491      0.500       0.911
       Father member of CCP                                            0.428         0.495         0.427    0.495      0.979     0.432      0.496       0.803
       Mother educ. above hs.                                          0.605         0.489         0.603    0.489      0.910     0.593      0.491       0.510
       Mother works related to govt.                                   0.486         0.500         0.484    0.500      0.869     0.477      0.500       0.614
       Mother member of CCP                                            0.225         0.418         0.220    0.414      0.689     0.216      0.411       0.523
       Total hh income in 2015                                        147856        187049        145759   184540      0.742    143807     185257       0.544
       z-score: household characteristics                              0.000         1.000        -0.008    0.994      0.817    -0.018      0.967       0.604

       Category F.5: Fundamental preferences
       Willingness to take risk                                        5.678         1.948        5.672     1.949      0.925    5.614       1.957       0.364
       Cert. equiv. of lottery choices                                 11.43         5.963        11.33     5.928      0.616    11.42       6.003       0.951
       Prefer risky lottery options                                    3.595         1.272        3.603     1.265      0.863    3.595       1.272       0.999
                                                                                                                                         Continued on next page
                                                              Completed baseline survey       Completed midline survey         Completed endline survey
                                                              Mean          Std.Dev.         Mean      Std.Dev.   p-value     Mean        Std.Dev.    p-value
       Variables:                                              (1)               (2)          (3)        (4)         (5)       (6)             (7)      (8)

       z-score: risk preferences                              0.000             1.000        -0.007     1.002       0.850     -0.017          1.008    0.639
       Willingness to wait for future                         6.028             2.162        6.053      2.160       0.737      6.020          2.176    0.918
       Tendency not to procrastinate                          5.107             2.895        5.119      2.918       0.904      5.106          2.909    0.987
       z-score: time preferences                              0.000             1.000        0.012      0.998       0.736     -0.003          0.995    0.930
       Willingness to give to good causes                     6.919          2.264           6.929      2.259       0.894     6.921        2.251       0.979
       Amount willing to donate                               2608.7         2329.8          2598.2     2311.8      0.895     2627.8       2311.4      0.819
       z-score: altruism                                      0.000          1.000           0.000       0.998      0.999     0.006        0.995       0.874
       Willingness to return favor                            8.868             1.276        8.868      1.264       0.988     8.872           1.281    0.940
       Belief that others are well-intended                   5.822             2.650        5.819      2.667       0.969     5.845           2.672    0.808
       Willingness to give thank-you gift                     5.364             1.254        5.364      1.247       0.999     5.390           1.238    0.555
       Punish who treat self unfairly                         5.442             2.432        5.465      2.437       0.784     5.453           2.477    0.905
       Punish who treat others unfairly                       4.572             2.322        4.572      2.324       0.996     4.542           2.330    0.724
       Willingness to take revenge                            3.507             2.364        3.534      2.361       0.740     3.513           2.370    0.947
       z-score: reciprocity                                   0.000             1.000        0.006      1.002       0.862     0.014           1.007    0.702
A.79
       Group-C                                                0.102             0.303        0.105      0.307       0.792     0.100           0.300    0.815
       Group-CE                                               0.182             0.386        0.188      0.391       0.625     0.189           0.391    0.601
       Group-A                                                0.173             0.379        0.179      0.383       0.672     0.178           0.383    0.734
       Group-AE                                               0.360             0.480        0.339      0.473       0.202     0.357           0.479    0.881
       Existing users                                         0.183             0.387        0.189      0.392       0.649     0.176           0.381    0.622

       # of obs.                                                         1807                            1617                          1372
         Notes: Column 1-2 present summary statistics for each of the baseline survey questions among 1,807 study participants who have completed baseline
         survey (November 2015); column 3-4 present summary statistics among 1617 participants who have completed midline survey (May 2016); and column
         6-7 present summary statistics among 1372 participants who have completed endline survey (April 2017). Column 5 present p-values of t-tests that
         compare corresponding mean between those who have completed baseline survey and those who have completed midline survey; column 8 present p-
         values of t-tests that compare corresponding mean between those who have completed baseline survey and those who have completed endline survey.
                     Table A.5: Predictors of endline attrition
                                                  Attritted from endline survey
  Baseline survey category:               A           B        C         D          E
                                          (1)        (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)

  Baseline survey categorical index      0.010      0.015    -0.021     0.050      0.050
                                        [0.036]    [0.032]   [0.039]   [0.035]    [0.038]
  Group-CE                               -0.043     -0.050   -0.046     -0.058     -0.056
                                        [0.043]    [0.040]   [0.040]   [0.041]    [0.041]
  Group-A                                -0.040     -0.043   -0.033     -0.048     -0.054
                                        [0.043]    [0.040]   [0.041]   [0.041]    [0.041]
  Group-AE                               -0.007     -0.017   -0.008     -0.016     -0.020
                                        [0.039]    [0.037]   [0.037]   [0.038]    [0.038]
  Existing users                         -0.049     0.006    -0.007     -0.020     0.002
                                        [0.051]    [0.043]   [0.042]   [0.045]    [0.043]
  Baseline index ⇥ Group-CE              0.021      -0.011    0.007     -0.049     -0.065
                                        [0.045]    [0.039]   [0.046]   [0.042]    [0.045]
  Baseline index ⇥ Group-A               0.015      -0.032    0.029     -0.052     -0.057
                                        [0.043]    [0.040]   [0.046]   [0.042]    [0.043]
  Baseline index ⇥ Group-AE              0.029      -0.031    0.023     -0.016     -0.036
                                        [0.041]    [0.036]   [0.042]   [0.040]    [0.042]
  Baseline index ⇥ Existing users        0.041      -0.011    0.060     -0.022     -0.064
                                        [0.048]    [0.041]   [0.045]   [0.044]    [0.045]

Note: Column 1-5 present regression coefficients, regressing indicator of attritted from
endline survey (conditional on having completed the baseline survey), on an z-score
index summarizing all outcomes elicited in the baseline survey belonging to a partic-
ular category, indicators of treatment status and being an existing user, and the inter-
action between the baseline outcome index and the indicators. Sample is restricted
to 1,807 study participants who have completed baseline survey (November 2015),
and the mean of endline attrition indicator is 0.759. The five categories of baseline
outcomes are: (A) media-related behaviors, beliefs and attitudes; (B) knowledge; (C)
economic beliefs; (D) political attitudes; and (E) behaviors and planned behaviors.




                                         A.80
                                    Table A.6: Predictors of access treatment take-up

                                                                     No controls           Control for AE indicator
                                                           Coefficient        Std.Error   Coefficient      Std.Error
Variables:                                                     (1)                 (2)        (3)             (4)

Category 1: Personal characteristics
Male                                                          -0.010           [0.031]      -0.002          [0.031]
Upper class cohorts                                           -0.053           [0.032]      -0.049          [0.032]
Height above median                                           -0.009           [0.031]      -0.006          [0.031]
Han ethnicity                                                  0.075           [0.057]      0.075           [0.057]
Born in coastal provinces                                     -0.043           [0.031]      -0.037          [0.031]
Reside in coastal provinces                                   -0.042           [0.031]      -0.035          [0.031]
Urban hukou                                                    0.061           [0.037]      0.050           [0.037]
Religious                                                     -0.109           [0.063]      -0.100          [0.062]
Member of CCP                                                  0.099           [0.055]      0.089           [0.056]

Category 2: Educational background
Elite university                                               0.283           [0.039]      0.282           [0.038]
Science track in high school                                  -0.041           [0.034]      -0.039          [0.034]
Social sciences or humanities majors                           0.013           [0.031]       0.013          [0.031]

Category 3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
Passed at least English Level 4                               0.034            [0.031]      0.035           [0.031]
Taken TOEFL or IELST                                          0.134            [0.042]      0.136           [0.042]
Been to Hong Kong or Taiwan                                   0.082            [0.039]      0.078           [0.039]
Been to other foreign countries                               0.028            [0.036]      0.022           [0.036]

Category 4: Household characteristics
Have siblings                                                 -0.024           [0.033]      -0.023          [0.032]
Father above high school                                       0.060           [0.033]      0.060           [0.032]
Father works for govt.                                         0.011           [0.031]      0.010           [0.031]
Father is CCP member                                           0.029           [0.031]      0.020           [0.031]
Mother above high school                                       0.035           [0.031]      0.036           [0.031]
Mother works for govt.                                         0.026           [0.031]      0.029           [0.031]
Mother is CCP member                                           0.020           [0.036]      0.020           [0.036]
Household income above median                                  0.078           [0.033]      0.076           [0.032]

Category 5: Fundamental preferences
Risk preference above median                                  -0.014           [0.031]      -0.007          [0.031]
Time preference above median                                   0.022           [0.031]      0.017           [0.031]
Altruism above median                                         -0.032           [0.031]      -0.031          [0.031]
Reciprocity above median                                      -0.031           [0.031]      -0.034          [0.031]

Category 6: Knowledge & attitudes at baseline
Knowledge on censored news above median                        0.057           [0.032]      0.057           [0.031]
Knowledge on uncensored news above median                      0.033           [0.031]       0.031          [0.031]
Value uncensored media above median                           -0.051           [0.031]      -0.051          [0.031]
Trust foreign media above median                               0.011           [0.032]      0.020           [0.032]

                                                                                               Continued on next page




                                                            A.81
                                                                 No controls            Control for AE indicator
                                                       Coefficient        Std.Error    Coefficient      Std.Error
 Variables:                                                (1)                 (2)         (3)              (4)

Notes: access treatment take-up is defined as students’ assigned censorship circumvention tool account has recorded at
least one activity throughout the experiment. Columns 1 and 2 present regression coefficients and corresponding stan-
dard errors, regressing the take-up indicator on the listed baseline measures, one at a time. Columns 3 and 4 replicate
Columns 1 and 2, but controlling for an indicator of whether the students belong to AE group. Sample is restricted to
963 students in the A and AE groups.




                                                        A.82
                          Table A.7: Predictors of active users of censorship circumvention tool

                                                                      No controls           Control for AE indicator
                                                            Coefficient        Std.Error   Coefficient     Std.Error
 Variables:                                                     (1)                 (2)        (3)            (4)

 Category 1: Personal characteristics
  Male                                                         -0.016           [0.032]      -0.013         [0.032]
  Upper class cohorts                                          -0.026           [0.033]      -0.024         [0.033]
  Height above median                                          -0.016           [0.032]      -0.014         [0.032]
  Han ethnicity                                                 0.016           [0.057]      0.016          [0.057]
  Born in coastal provinces                                    -0.045           [0.032]      -0.043         [0.032]
  Reside in coastal provinces                                  -0.030           [0.032]      -0.027         [0.032]
  Urban hukou                                                   0.065           [0.038]      0.060          [0.038]
  Religious                                                    -0.062           [0.062]      -0.058         [0.062]
  Member of CCP                                                 0.077           [0.062]      0.073          [0.063]

 Category 2: Educational background
  Elite university                                              0.271           [0.035]      0.271          [0.035]
  Science track in high school                                 -0.026           [0.036]      -0.025         [0.036]
  Social sciences or humanities majors                          0.023           [0.033]       0.023         [0.032]

 Category 3: English ability and oversea travel experiences [at baseline]
  Passed at least English Level 4                              0.042            [0.032]      0.042          [0.032]
  Taken TOEFL or IELST                                         0.058            [0.049]      0.059          [0.049]
  Been to Hong Kong or Taiwan                                  0.103            [0.043]      0.101          [0.043]
  Been to other foreign countries                              0.075            [0.038]      0.073          [0.038]

 Category 4: Household characteristics
  Father above high school                                      0.047           [0.034]      0.047          [0.034]
  Father works for govt.                                        0.010           [0.032]      0.010          [0.032]
  Father is CCP member                                         -0.007           [0.032]      -0.011         [0.032]
  Mother above high school                                      0.051           [0.032]      0.052          [0.032]
  Mother works for govt.                                        0.071           [0.032]      0.072          [0.032]
  Mother is CCP member                                          0.040           [0.038]      0.040          [0.038]
  Household income above median                                 0.076           [0.033]      0.076          [0.033]

 Category 5: Fundamental preferences
  Risk preference above median                                 -0.010           [0.032]      -0.007         [0.032]
  Time preference above median                                  0.081           [0.032]      0.079          [0.032]
  Altruism above median                                        -0.020           [0.032]      -0.019         [0.032]
  Reciprocity above median                                      0.003           [0.032]      0.002          [0.032]

 Category 6: Knowledge & attitudes at baseline
  Knowledge on censored news above median                      0.011            [0.033]      0.011          [0.033]
  Knowledge on uncensored news above median                    0.027            [0.032]      0.025          [0.032]
  Value uncensored media above median                          0.009            [0.032]      0.009          [0.032]
  Trust foreign media above median                             0.048            [0.033]      0.052          [0.033]

Notes: active users are students who have activated the censorship circumvention tool provided during the experiment
and were actively using the tool (if the students’ accounts record at least one browsing activity per day for more than
40 days after the encouragement treatment ends). Columns 1 and 2 present regression coefficients and corresponding
standard errors, regressing the active user indicator on the listed baseline measures, one at a time. Columns 3 and 4
replicate Columns 1 and 2, but controlling for an indicator of whether the students belong to AE group. Sample is re-
stricted to 963 students in the A and AE groups.
                                                             A.83
Table A.8: Browsing activities on foreign websites among endline survey participants

                                                Access        Access + Encour.
                                        Mean       Std.Dev.   Mean      Std.Dev.   p-value
                                         (1)           (2)     (3)        (4)        (5)

       Panel A: extensive margins (% of students), among all students
       Activated accounts               57.8%       49.5%     72.9%      44.5%     <0.001
       Active users                     41.8%       49.4%     49.8%      50.1%     0.041

       Panel B: intensive margins (mins per day), among all students
       Total daily browsing time        33.49       67.93     35.06      60.16      0.749
       Google and related services       7.64       14.73     7.97       13.98      0.766
       YouTube                           3.87        9.31     4.98       12.20      0.211
       Facebook                          3.16        7.34     3.61        8.35      0.477
       Twitter                           2.79        7.29     2.96        7.70      0.742
       Top foreign news websites         0.10          0.22   0.65        0.65     <0.001
         New York Times                  0.07          0.18   0.62        0.61     <0.001
       Informational websites            3.20          6.12   3.50        5.68     0.508
          Wikipedia                      0.06          0.22   0.61        1.89     <0.001
       Entertainment websites           10.04       16.05     9.54       14.12      0.666
       Pornographic websites             2.83        8.91     3.01        9.79      0.807

       Panel C: intensive margins (mins per day), among active users
       Total daily browsing time        79.85       85.87     70.04      69.52      0.266
       Google and related services      18.20       18.13     15.67      16.55      0.208
       YouTube                           9.18       12.62      9.96      15.81      0.659
       Facebook                          7.49        9.85      7.21      10.68      0.821
       Twitter                           7.05       10.22      6.51      10.36      0.625
       Top foreign news websites         0.24          0.29   1.20        0.43     <0.001
         New York Times                  0.17          0.25   1.14        0.37     <0.001
       Informational websites            7.62          7.49   6.79        6.56     0.307
          Wikipedia                      0.15          0.32   1.22        2.53     <0.001
       Entertainment websites           23.90       16.92     18.85      15.08      0.007
       Pornographic websites             6.75       12.82      6.00      13.22      0.629

     Note: Panel A shows the composition among students received only the access
     treatment (Group-A) and those who received both access and encouragement treat-
     ments (Group-AE). They are divided into 2 nested categories: (i) “activated ac-
     counts” — students who have activated the censorship circumvention tool pro-
     vided during the experiment, as of April 10th, 2017 (the last day of the experiment);
     and (ii) “active users” — students who have activated the tool and were actively us-
     ing the tool (if the student’s account records at least one browsing activity per day
     for more than 40 days after the encouragement treatment ends). Panel B shows the
     average daily browsing time in total and on various categories of websites through-
     out the experiment after the encouragement treatment ends, among all students
     (assuming students without activated accounts spend 0 minute on these websites).
     Panel C replicates Panel B, but among students who actively used the tool. Top for-
     eign news websites, informational, entertainment, and pornographic websites are
     defined primarily based on Alexa Top Websites categorization. Column 5 shows
     p-values of two-sided t-tests on the extensive margins and the intensive margins
     between the Group-A and Group-AE students. Sample is restricted to study partici-
     pants who have completed the endline survey.
                                                A.84
                                                                    Table A.9: Effects of access & encouragement treatment - endline results

                                                                                                          Group-AE effect                                               Summary statistics
                                                                                  Cross-sectional           Control for                Control for                                                Ext.
                                                                                    difference            imbalanced char.            baseline level             C,CE,A,AE              C        users
                                                                                               LSX adj.                                           FDR adj.     mean     std.dev.      mean       mean
                                                                          beta        s.e.     p-value    beta       s.e.     beta       s.e.     p-value       DV        DV           DV         DV
                                                                           (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)           (8)     (9)       (10)         (11)      (12)


       Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes
       Category A.1: Information source and media consumption
       A.1.1     Ranked high: domestic websites                          -0.342      [0.106]         -    -0.324   [0.107]   -0.336     [0.108]          -     3.719      1.113        3.869     3.223
       A.1.2     Ranked high: foreign websites                            0.588      [0.098]         -     0.549   [0.101]   0.554      [0.097]          -     2.251      1.164        1.949     2.707
       A.1.3     Ranked high: domestic social media                      -0.142      [0.086]         -    -0.169   [0.088]   -0.122     [0.087]          -     4.294      0.972        4.372     4.157
       A.1.4     Ranked high: foreign social media                        0.340      [0.085]         -     0.347   [0.088]      -          -             -     1.805      1.011        1.599     2.107
       A.1.5     Ranked high: word of mouth                              -0.459      [0.098]         -    -0.417   [0.099]   -0.473     [0.096]          -     2.925      1.124        3.212     2.802
       A.1.6     Freq. of visiting foreign websites for info.            1.870       [0.141]         -    1.890    [0.142]   1.832      [0.134]          -     3.840      1.579        2.920     5.273

       Category A.2: Purchase of censorship circumvention tools
       A.2.1     Purchase discounted tool we offered                     0.225       [0.021]         -    0.221    [0.022]     -           -             -     0.115      0.319        0.007     0.076
A.85   A.2.2     Purchase any tool                                       0.489       [0.027]         -    0.486    [0.028]     -           -             -     0.289      0.454        0.029     0.983

       Category A.3: Valuation of access to foreign media outlets
       A.3.1     Willingness to pay for circumvention tool               11.32       [1.451]   <0.001     12.24    [1.471]   11.20      [1.074]        0.001    22.80     17.62        16.91     36.15
       A.3.2     Value added of foreign media access                     0.847       [0.145]   <0.001     0.822    [0.147]   0.912      [0.129]        0.001    6.331     1.515        5.949     7.165
                 z-score: valuation of access to foreign media outlets   0.726       [0.081]     -        0.745    [0.083]   0.754      [0.068]          -     -0.139     0.957       -0.492     0.648

       Category A.4: Trust in media outlets
       A.4.1     Distrust of domestic state-owned media                  0.987       [0.206]   <0.001     0.921    [0.209]   1.046      [0.164]        0.001    4.920     2.146        4.438     5.909
       A.4.2     Distrust in domestic privately-owned media              0.985       [0.160]   <0.001     0.971    [0.163]   0.955      [0.146]        0.001    4.456     1.832        3.956     5.058
       A.4.3     Trust in foreign media                                  1.344       [0.156]   <0.001     1.367    [0.158]   1.333      [0.144]        0.001    6.102     1.703        5.438     7.306
                 z-score: trust in non-domestic media outlets            1.015       [0.080]     -        1.008    [0.082]   1.005      [0.074]        0.001   -0.149     0.960       -0.654     0.698

       Category A.5: Belief regarding level of actual media censorship
       A.5.1     Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets            1.032      [0.145]         -     1.037   [0.149]   0.965      [0.126]          -     7.682      1.600        7.168     8.322
       A.5.2     Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets            -1.414      [0.152]         -    -1.396   [0.154]   -1.360     [0.144]          -     6.118      1.818        6.832     4.917

       Category A.6: Justification of media censorship
       A.6.1     Unjustified: censoring economic news                    1.578       [0.175]   <0.001     1.600    [0.177]   1.633      [0.164]        0.001   4.415      2.053        3.679     5.636
       A.6.2     Unjustified: censoring political news                   1.435       [0.231]   <0.001     1.408    [0.236]   1.515      [0.234]        0.001   5.695      2.482        5.051     7.112
                                                                                                                                                                                 Continued on next page
                                                                                                       Group-AE effect                                               Summary statistics
                                                                               Cross-sectional           Control for                Control for                                                Ext.
                                                                                 difference            imbalanced char.            baseline level             C,CE,A,AE              C        users
                                                                                            LSX adj.                                           FDR adj.     mean     std.dev.      mean       mean
                                                                      beta         s.e.     p-value    beta       s.e.    beta        s.e.     p-value       DV        DV           DV         DV
                                                                        (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)           (8)     (9)       (10)         (11)      (12)

       A.6.3     Unjustified: censoring social news                   0.035       [0.260]   0.856      0.090    [0.266]   0.056      [0.262]        0.334    5.559     2.706        5.533     5.983
       A.6.4     Unjustified: censoring foreign news                  0.248       [0.274]   0.939      0.144    [0.284]   0.335      [0.261]        0.112    5.814     2.876        5.628     5.698
       A.6.5     Unjustified: censoring pornography                   0.843       [0.270]   <0.001     0.881    [0.272]     -           -           0.003    4.346     2.788        3.796     4.740
                 z-score: censorship unjustified                      0.540       [0.091]     -        0.532    [0.094]   0.591      [0.088]          -     -0.082     0.998       -0.340     0.381

       Category A.7: Belief regarding drivers of media censorship
       A.7.1     Domestic cens. driven by govt. policies               0.130      [0.034]         -     0.122   [0.034]   0.131      [0.034]          -     0.881      0.323        0.825     0.983
       A.7.2     Domestic cens. driven by corp. interest              -0.080      [0.027]         -    -0.083   [0.027]   -0.080     [0.027]          -     0.053      0.224        0.102     0.017
       A.7.3     Domestic cens. driven by media’s ideology            -0.021      [0.019]         -    -0.010   [0.018]   -0.023     [0.019]          -     0.052      0.223        0.044     0.000
       A.7.4     Domestic cens. driven by readers’ demand             -0.023      [0.015]         -    -0.023   [0.015]   -0.023     [0.015]          -     0.016      0.125        0.029     0.008
       A.7.5     Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies               -0.096      [0.039]         -    -0.088   [0.040]   -0.113     [0.038]          -     0.166      0.373        0.226     0.062
       A.7.6     Foreign cens. driven by corp. interest                0.007      [0.045]         -    -0.004   [0.046]   0.006      [0.045]          -     0.329      0.470        0.314     0.450
       A.7.7     Foreign cens. driven by media’s ideology              0.091      [0.047]         -     0.094   [0.048]   0.092      [0.047]          -     0.417      0.493        0.387     0.368
       A.7.8     Foreign cens. driven by readers’ demand              -0.002      [0.025]         -    -0.001   [0.026]   0.006      [0.026]          -     0.088      0.283        0.073     0.120
A.86
       Panel B: Knowledge
       Category B.2: Current news events not covered in the encouragement treatment
       B.2.9     Steel production reduction reaches target            0.071       [0.041]   0.063      0.054    [0.042]     -           -           0.025   0.242      0.429        0.219     0.376
       B.2.10    Trump registered trademarks in China                 0.098       [0.045]   0.071      0.085    [0.046]     -           -           0.015   0.353      0.478        0.292     0.463
       B.2.11    Jianhua Xiao kidnapped in Hong Kong                  0.152       [0.045]   <0.001     0.142    [0.046]     -           -           0.004   0.740      0.439        0.650     0.802
       B.2.12    Xinjiang installed GPS on all automobiles            0.183       [0.046]   <0.001     0.182    [0.047]     -           -           0.001   0.706      0.456        0.599     0.814
       B.2.13    China and Norway re-normalizes ties                  0.137       [0.046]   0.014      0.136    [0.047]     -           -           0.004   0.688      0.464        0.606     0.707
       B.2.14    Feminist groups fight women’s rights                 0.124       [0.048]   0.023      0.125    [0.049]     -           -           0.007   0.506      0.500        0.445     0.587
       B.2.15    Carrie Lam becomes HK Chief Executive                0.135       [0.045]   <0.001     0.139    [0.047]     -           -           0.004   0.354      0.478        0.299     0.463
                 % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news   0.129       [0.019]     -        0.123    [0.019]   0.128      [0.019]          -     0.513      0.210        0.444     0.602
       B.2.23    China stops importing coal from North Korea          -0.013      [0.048]    0.895     -0.029   [0.049]      -          -           1.000   0.511      0.500        0.547     0.550
       B.2.24    H7N9 influenza epidemic                               0.045      [0.044]    0.756      0.032   [0.045]      -          -           1.000   0.313      0.464        0.277     0.289
       B.2.25    Transnational railway in Ethiopia                    -0.010      [0.046]    0.997     -0.023   [0.047]      -          -           1.000   0.628      0.483        0.642     0.682
       B.2.26    Foreign reserves fall below threshold                -0.026      [0.046]    0.939     -0.030   [0.046]      -          -           1.000   0.313      0.464        0.336     0.376
                 % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news      -0.001      [0.025]      -       -0.012   [0.025]   -0.001     [0.025]          -     0.441      0.257        0.451     0.474

       Category B.3: Awareness of protests and independence movements
       B.3.1     2012 HK Anti-National Curr. Movement                 0.141       [0.036]   <0.001     0.133    [0.036]   0.150      [0.034]        0.001   0.217      0.412        0.139     0.281
       B.3.2     2014 HK Umbrella Revolution                          0.156       [0.038]   <0.001     0.147    [0.039]   0.129      [0.033]        0.001   0.247      0.431        0.161     0.397
       B.3.3     2016 HK Mong Kok Revolution                          0.153       [0.038]   <0.001     0.146    [0.039]     -           -           0.001   0.250      0.433        0.168     0.413
                                                                                                                                                                              Continued on next page
                                                                                                      Group-AE effect                                                Summary statistics
                                                                              Cross-sectional           Control for                Control for                                                 Ext.
                                                                                difference            imbalanced char.            baseline level              C,CE,A,AE              C        users
                                                                                           LSX adj.                                           FDR adj.     mean      std.dev.      mean       mean
                                                                     beta         s.e.     p-value    beta       s.e.    beta        s.e.     p-value       DV         DV           DV         DV
                                                                      (1)          (2)          (3)    (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)           (8)      (9)       (10)         (11)      (12)

       B.3.4     2014 Taiwan Sunflower Stud. Movement                0.089       [0.047]    0.028     0.080    [0.048]   0.085      [0.041]        0.010    0.657      0.475        0.613     0.702
                 % protests in Greater China heard of                0.129       [0.027]      -       0.120    [0.027]   0.124      [0.023]          -      0.373      0.308        0.304     0.460
       B.3.5     2014 Ukrainian Euromaidan Revolution                0.039       [0.046]    0.992     0.036    [0.047]   0.041      [0.044]        0.129    0.382      0.486        0.350     0.438
       B.3.6     2010 Arab Spring                                    0.093       [0.043]    0.028     0.073    [0.042]   0.084      [0.037]        0.051    0.764      0.425        0.715     0.893
       B.3.7     2014 Crimean Status Referendum                      0.068       [0.039]    0.093     0.047    [0.039]   0.057      [0.029]        0.064    0.811      0.392        0.781     0.909
       B.3.8     2010 Catalonian Indep. Movement                     0.084       [0.041]    0.157     0.070    [0.042]   0.095      [0.025]        0.001    0.276      0.447        0.226     0.426
       B.3.9     2017 Women’s March around globe                     0.093       [0.046]    0.156     0.080    [0.047]     -           -           0.074    0.385      0.487        0.336     0.521
                 % foreign protests heard of                         0.071       [0.027]      -       0.057    [0.027]   0.068      [0.020]          -      0.558      0.282        0.518     0.666
       B.3.10    2011 Tomorrow Revolution [fake]                     0.022       [0.027]         -    0.033    [0.027]   0.025      [0.027]          -      0.101      0.301        0.080     0.083

       Category B.5: Self-assessment of knowledge level
       B.5.1     Informedness of issues in China                      0.495      [0.189]   0.001       0.504   [0.191]    0.598     [0.150]        0.001    4.357      1.935        4.109     5.070
       B.5.2     Greater informedness than peers                     -0.584      [0.144]   <0.001     -0.603   [0.146]   -0.600     [0.148]        0.001   3.997       1.576       4.219      4.843
                 z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level         -0.077      [0.088]     -        -0.082   [0.090]   -0.063     [0.081]          -     -0.105      0.985       -0.096     0.491
A.87

       Panel C: Economic beliefs
       Category C.1: Belief on economic performance in China
       C.1.1     Guess on GDP growth rate in 2017 China              -0.896      [0.130]   <0.001     -0.903   [0.137]   -0.893     [0.127]        0.001   6.351      1.672        6.820     5.691
       C.1.2     Guess of SSCI by end of 2017                        -317.3      [40.90]   <0.001     -329.0   [40.45]   -308.1     [41.22]        0.001   3236.7     514.36       3363.5    2820.3
                 z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy       -0.759      [0.076]     -        -0.781   [0.078]   -0.748     [0.075]          -     0.139      1.010        0.488     -0.648

       Category C.2: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in China
       C.2.1     Confidence of China GDP guess                       0.032       [0.236]    0.955     0.010    [0.239]   0.015      [0.209]        1.000    4.723      2.305        4.635     5.124
       C.2.2     Confidence of SSCI guess                            0.108       [0.202]    0.969     0.133    [0.207]   -0.004     [0.178]        1.000    2.280      2.029        2.153     2.620
                 z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy   0.039       [0.103]      -       0.040    [0.107]   -0.002     [0.088]          -     -0.035      1.008       -0.093     0.164

       Category C.3: Belief on economic performance in the US
       C.3.1     Guess on GDP growth rate in 2017 US                 1.197       [0.104]   <0.001      0.209   [0.107]     -           -           0.001     2.685     1.787        2.112     3.050
       C.3.2     Guess on DJI by end of 2017                         1794.9      [278.4]   <0.001     1612.4   [271.2]     -           -           0.001   19514.6    2926.2      18602.2    2158.4
                 z-score: optimistic belief of US economy            0.894       [0.076]     -        0.856    [0.076]     -           -             -      -0.111    1.011        -0.552     0.520

       Category C.4: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in US
       C.4.1     Confidence of US GDP guess                          0.049       [0.193]    0.896     0.050    [0.197]     -           -           1.000    2.793      2.070        2.708     3.062
                                                                                                                                                                              Continued on next page
                                                                                                     Group-AE effect                                               Summary statistics
                                                                             Cross-sectional           Control for                Control for                                                Ext.
                                                                               difference            imbalanced char.            baseline level             C,CE,A,AE              C        users
                                                                                          LSX adj.                                           FDR adj.     mean     std.dev.      mean       mean
                                                                     beta        s.e.     p-value    beta       s.e.    beta        s.e.     p-value       DV        DV           DV         DV
                                                                      (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)           (8)     (9)       (10)         (11)      (12)

       C.4.2     Confidence of DJI guess                             0.067      [0.167]    0.904     0.112    [0.169]     -           -           1.000    1.669     1.794        1.547     1.793
                 z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy        0.034      [0.094]      -       0.048    [0.094]     -           -             -     -0.020     0.993       -0.080     0.091


       Panel D: Political attitudes
       Category D.1: Demand for institutional change
       D.1.1     Economic system needs changes                       0.861      [0.205]   <0.001     0.885    [0.211]   0.887      [0.194]        0.001    5.249     2.167        4.825     5.909
       D.1.2     Political system needs changes                      1.507      [0.186]   <0.001     1.515    [0.189]   1.591      [0.159]        0.001    4.773     2.223        3.920     6.364
                 z-score: demand for institutional change            0.622      [0.089]     -        0.630    [0.091]   0.651      [0.081]          -     -0.104     1.000       -0.438     0.485

       Category D.2: Trust in institutions
       D.2.1     Trust in central govt. of China                    -1.576      [0.200]   <0.001     -1.482   [0.203]   -1.505     [0.198]        0.001   6.659      2.250        7.431    5.674
       D.2.2     Trust in provincial govt. of China                 -1.250      [0.184]   <0.001     -1.163   [0.189]   -1.215     [0.168]        0.001   5.588      2.047        6.219    4.702
       D.2.3     Trust in local govt. of China                      -1.104      [0.205]   <0.001     -1.054   [0.208]   -1.048     [0.200]        0.001   4.475      2.105        5.022    3.624
A.88             z-score: trust in Chinese govt.                    -0.700      [0.088]     -        -0.660   [0.089]   -0.662     [0.084]          -     0.086      0.980        0.432    -0.400
       D.2.7     Trust in central govt. of Japan                     0.947      [0.185]   <0.001     0.879    [0.190]   0.976      [0.172]        0.001    3.673     2.073        3.226     4.814
       D.2.8     Trust in federal govt. of US                        0.348      [0.194]   0.031      0.259    [0.198]   0.384      [0.190]        0.022    4.817     1.999        4.650     5.161
                 z-score: trust in foreign govt.                     0.349      [0.091]     -        0.306    [0.093]   0.368      [0.086]          -     -0.070     0.988       -0.236     0.329

       Category D.3: Evaluation of government’s performance
       D.3.1     Satisfaction of economic dev.                      -1.254      [0.174]   <0.001     -1.174   [0.176]   -1.174     [0.152]        0.001   5.638      1.180        6.197    4.645
       D.3.2     Satisfaction of domestic politics                  -1.308      [0.199]   <0.001     -1.238   [0.204]   -1.227     [0.182]        0.001   5.551      2.137        6.102    4.459
       D.3.3     Satisfaction of diplomatic affairs                 -0.122      [0.187]   0.955      -0.066   [0.189]   -0.016     [0.177]        0.448   6.633      1.945        6.766     6.248
                 z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance        -0.504      [0.094]     -        -0.462   [0.096]   -0.437     [0.083]          -     0.084      0.971        0.324    -0.394

       Category D.6: Evaluation of democracy and human rights protection in China
       D.6.4     Living in democracy is not important               -0.859      [0.218]         -    -0.995   [0.220]   -0.945     [0.162]          -     3.453      2.132        3.898     2.715

       Category D.8: Willingness to act
       D.8.1     Willing to battle illegal govt. acts                0.509      [0.233]   <0.001     0.499    [0.234]   0.495      [0.214]        0.022    6.080     2.422        5.854     6.657
       D.8.2     Willing to report govt. misconduct                  0.296      [0.223]   0.051      0.349    [0.228]   0.332      [0.199]        0.044    4.964     2.347        4.883     5.508
       D.8.3     Willing to stand up for the weak                    0.617      [0.203]   <0.001     0.685    [0.209]   0.627      [0.174]        0.001    6.182     2.062        5.869     6.727
                 z-score: willingness to act                         0.276      [0.095]     -        0.296    [0.097]   0.281      [0.078]          -     -0.054     0.999       -0.179     0.252



                                                                                                                                                                            Continued on next page
                                                                                               Group-AE effect                                            Summary statistics
                                                                       Cross-sectional           Control for                Control for                                             Ext.
                                                                         difference            imbalanced char.            baseline level           C,CE,A,AE             C        users
                                                                                    LSX adj.                                           FDR adj.   mean    std.dev.      mean       mean
                                                              beta         s.e.     p-value    beta       s.e.    beta        s.e.     p-value     DV       DV           DV         DV
                                                               (1)          (2)          (3)    (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)          (8)    (9)      (10)         (11)      (12)

       Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors

       Category E.1: Social interaction in politics
       E.1.1     Frequency of discussing poli. with friends   0.672       [0.219]         -    0.698    [0.224]   0.800      [0.177]         -    4.712     2.254        4.336     5.731
       E.1.2     Frequency of persuading others               0.229       [0.229]         -    0.177    [0.233]   0.205      [0.196]         -    5.194     2.368        5.073     5.636

       Category E.2: Political participation
       E.2.1     Protests concerning social issues            0.005       [0.020]         -    0.009    [0.021]   0.002      [0.020]         -    0.047     0.212        0.044     0.079
       E.2.2     Plan to vote for local PCR                   0.060       [0.048]         -    0.074    [0.048]   0.064      [0.047]         -    0.607     0.489        0.562     0.587
       E.2.3     Complain to school authorities               0.068       [0.041]         -    0.065    [0.042]   0.062      [0.039]         -    0.261     0.439        0.226     0.322

       Category E.3: Investment in the Chinese stock market
       E.3.1     Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.     -0.045      [0.022]         -    -0.048   [0.023]   -0.039     [0.020]         -    0.050     0.217        0.066     0.116

A.89   Category E.4: Plan after graduation
       E.4.1     Plan: grad. school in China                  -0.114      [0.048]         -    -0.075   [0.049]   -0.121     [0.046]         -    0.504     0.500        0.555     0.417
       E.4.2     Plan: master degree abroad                    0.135      [0.036]         -     0.099   [0.036]   0.116      [0.034]         -    0.211     0.408        0.139     0.269
       E.4.3     Plan: PhD degree abroad                      -0.004      [0.027]         -    -0.014   [0.028]   -0.003     [0.025]         -    0.084     0.278        0.088     0.165
       E.4.4     Plan: military in China                      -0.001      [0.008]         -    -0.000   [0.008]   -0.001     [0.009]         -    0.007     0.084        0.007     0.004
       E.4.5     Plan: work right away                        -0.031      [0.037]         -    -0.025   [0.037]   -0.023     [0.034]         -    0.150     0.358        0.182     0.107

       Category E.5: Career preferences
       E.5.1     Sector pref.: national civil service          0.022      [0.022]         -     0.015   [0.023]   0.018      [0.022]         -    0.075     0.264        0.051     0.050
       E.5.2     Sector pref.: local civil service             0.001      [0.008]         -     0.002   [0.009]   0.001      [0.008]         -    0.008     0.089        0.007     0.000
       E.5.3     Sector pref.: military                        0.004      [0.012]         -     0.005   [0.012]   0.004      [0.012]         -    0.019     0.135        0.015     0.017
       E.5.4     Sector pref.: private firm in China           0.047      [0.026]         -     0.048   [0.027]   0.045      [0.026]         -    0.112     0.315        0.066     0.103
       E.5.5     Sector pref.: foreign firm in China          -0.026      [0.045]         -    -0.038   [0.046]   -0.055     [0.041]         -    0.310     0.463        0.328     0.285
       E.5.6     Sector pref.: SOEs                            0.019      [0.023]         -     0.020   [0.024]   0.021      [0.024]         -    0.086     0.280        0.058     0.058
       E.5.7     Sector pref.: inst. organizations            -0.085      [0.046]         -    -0.079   [0.047]   -0.067     [0.039]         -    0.288     0.453        0.372     0.343
       E.5.8     Sector pref.: entrepreneurship                0.003      [0.025]         -     0.005   [0.026]   0.013      [0.025]         -    0.067     0.251        0.073     0.095
       E.5.9     Location pref.: Beijing                      -0.030      [0.045]         -    -0.041   [0.045]   -0.029     [0.043]         -    0.288     0.453        0.314     0.202
       E.5.10    Location pref.: Shanghai                      0.023      [0.031]         -     0.017   [0.032]   0.040      [0.029]         -    0.140     0.347        0.109     0.178
       E.5.11    Location pref.: Guangzhou and Shenzhen       -0.012      [0.027]         -    -0.005   [0.028]   -0.028     [0.025]         -    0.077     0.267        0.088     0.058
       E.5.12    Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central     -0.023      [0.023]         -    -0.020   [0.023]   -0.022     [0.022]         -    0.050     0.219        0.066     0.058
       E.5.13    Location pref.: other cities in China        -0.079      [0.046]         -    -0.061   [0.047]   -0.059     [0.041]         -    0.312     0.463        0.365     0.248
                                                                                                                                                                   Continued on next page
                                                                                                      Group-AE effect                                               Summary statistics
                                                                              Cross-sectional           Control for                 Control for                                              Ext.
                                                                                difference            imbalanced char.             baseline level             C,CE,A,AE            C        users
                                                                                           LSX adj.                                            FDR adj.    mean      std.dev.    mean       mean
                                                                       beta       s.e.     p-value     beta      s.e.      beta       s.e.     p-value      DV         DV         DV         DV
                                                                       (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)        (5)       (6)        (7)          (8)      (9)       (10)       (11)       (12)

         E.5.14   Location pref.: HK and Macau                        0.006      [0.004]         -    0.005     [0.004]    0.006     [0.004]         -     0.005      0.073       0.000     0.017
         E.5.15   Location pref.: Taiwan                              0.004      [0.003]         -    0.003     [0.003]    0.003     [0.002]         -     0.004      0.066       0.000     0.000
         E.5.16   Location pref.: foreign cities                      0.111      [0.026]         -    0.102     [0.027]    0.099     [0.027]         -     0.123      0.329       0.058     0.240

       Notes: Regression coefficient estimates of the Group-AE indicator (regression include Group-CE, Group-A, Group-AE indicators, where Group-C is the omitted group) are shown in col-
       umn 1, robust standard errors shown in column 2, and multiple hypotheses testing adjusted p-values (corresponding to t-tests against the null hypothesis that the estimated Group-AE
       coefficients are zero) shown in column 3. Column 4 and 5 show the regression coefficient estimates and robust standard errors, controlling for demographic and background characteris-
       tics that are imbalanced across the treatment groups at the endline survey (coastal residency status, high school track, parents’ memberships in the Communist Party, certainty equivalent
       of the lottery preferences, and the amount of reciprocal gifts students are willing to give. Column 6 and 7 show the regression coefficient estimates and robust standard errors, controlling
       for baseline wave level; FDR-adjusted p-values (corresponding to t-tests against the null hypothesis that the estimated Group-AE coefficients are zero) shown in column 8. For space con-
       straint, we do not show coefficient estimates on Group-CE and Group-A indicators. The multiple hypothesis testing adjusted p-values (LSX-adjusted p-values) are computed following
       List, Shaikh, and Xu (2016), Remark 3.7, taking into account of multiple outcomes in each categories and multiple treatment groups. The z-score indices (weighting by the inverse covari-
       ance of the standardized variables) and the FDR-adjusted p-values are computed following Anderson (2008). The LSX-adjusted and FDR-adjusted p-values are calculated if there are more
       than one outcome in the corresponding category, and these outcomes are not generated from a single survey question. Coefficients are estimated using 1,130 completed endline surveys
       from students who have not been using censorship circumvention product at the time of baseline survey (November 2015).
A.90
                            Table A.10: News consumption responding to news shocks

                                                        Group-AE                                   Group-A
                                             (1)       (2)           (3)      (4)       (5)       (6)       (7)       (8)

  Panel A: Browsing time on the New York Times
  Share of pol. sensitive                  21.652    20.202     19.833      18.326     1.263     0.949     1.001     0.674
  articles on NYTimes                      [0.438]   [0.433]    [0.499]     [0.444]   [0.477]   [0.475]   [0.507]   [0.504]

  Panel B: Browsing time on foreign media other than the New York Times
  Share of pol. sensitive                   0.004     -0.047    -0.082       -0.135    -0.033    0.007     -0.083    -0.042
  articles on NYTimes                      [0.249]   [0.250]    [0.267]     [0.268]   [0.553]   [0.560]   [0.607]   [0.613]

  # of obs.                                24574      24122     23670       23218      9290      9119      8948      8777
  Excl. US Presidential Election week        No        Yes          No       Yes       No        Yes       No        Yes
  Excl. week-long national holidays          No        No           Yes      Yes       No        No        Yes       Yes
  Mean of EV                                0.147     0.146         0.150   0.149     0.147     0.146     0.150     0.149
  Std.Dev. of EV                            0.053     0.053         0.052   0.052     0.053     0.053     0.052     0.052
Note: all regressions include user fixed effects. “Share of politically sensitive articles on the New York Times” indicates
the total share of articles published on the New York Times Chinese edition each week that report politically sensitive
events not covered by the Chinese domestic news outlets. Browsing time on the New York Times and on other top
foreign news websites are calculated as weekly sums (unit: minutes). Top foreign news websites are based on the
top 20 websites in the news category, ranked by Alexa. Browsing time sample excludes the 8 weeks during which
the encouragement treatment is distributed. The two week-long national holidays during the time frame are 2016
National Day holiday week (October 1st to 7th, 2016) and 2017 Chinese New Year holiday week (January 27th to
February 3rd, 2017).




                                                             A.91
Table A.11: Robustness of treatment effects on knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors




                                                 A: Media-related behaviors,
                                                                                                                                                  E. Behaviors


                                                                                                 C. Economic beliefs     D. Political attitudes
                                                 beliefs and attitudes          B. Knowledge                                                      & planned behaviors

                                                       (1)                       (2)             (3)                     (4)                           (5)

         Panel A: Baseline
                Encouragement only (CE)          0.126                          0.066           0.065                   0.054                      0.105
                                                [0.075]                        [0.096]         [0.103]                 [0.095]                    [0.092]
                             Access only (A)     0.215                          0.119           0.136                   0.164                      0.176
                                                [0.080]                        [0.102]         [0.100]                 [0.096]                    [0.096]
           Encouragement + Access (AE)           1.268                          0.412           0.573                   0.853                      0.328
                                                [0.067]                        [0.088]         [0.089]                 [0.086]                    [0.084]

         Panel B: Control for imbalanced characteristics
           Encouragement + Access (AE)           1.273                          0.361           0.591                   0.841                      0.285
                                                [0.069]                        [0.088]         [0.091]                 [0.089]                    [0.086]

         Panel C: Control for levels at baseline survey
           Encouragement + Access (AE)           1.259                          0.405           0.537                   0.853                      0.302
                                                [0.060]                        [0.077]         [0.083]                 [0.075]                    [0.076]

         Panel D: Drop extremely politically correct subjects
           Encouragement + Access (AE)           1.265                          0.419           0.589                   0.772                      0.305
                                                [0.072]                        [0.091]         [0.095]                 [0.085]                    [0.090]

              Mean (all non-existing users)    -0.186   -0.108    -0.125    -0.139  -0.090
          Std. dev. (all non-existing users)   0.959    0.982      0.997    0.955    0.947
                      Mean (control group)     -0.811   -0.327    -0.418    -0.556  -0.294
                  Std. dev. (control group)    0.681     0.896     0.923    0.906    0.850
                      Mean (existing users)    0.867     0.503     0.584    0.647    0.419
                  Std. dev. (existing users)   0.681     0.931     0.783    0.952    1.129
       Notes: Survey outcomes in each of the A-E categories are summarized by an z-score
       index, weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized variables, following
       Anderson (2008). Panel A shows baseline regression coefficient estimates and robust
       standard errors of the Group-CE, Group-A, and Group-AE indicators, where Group-
       C is the omitted group. Panel B replicates baseline specification, adding controls for
       the baseline characteristics that are not experimentally balanced. Panel C replicates
       baseline specification, adding controls for the outcome levels measured at baseline
       survey. Panel D replicates baseline specification, dropping subjects who report an-
       swers that are extremely politically correct (in particular, answered 10 out of 10 on
       trust level of central government of China in endline survey). Coefficients are esti-
       mated using 1,130 completed endline surveys from students who have not been using
       censorship circumvention product at the time of baseline survey (November 2015).




                                                       A.92
                                Table A.12: Quantile movement of treated students

                                                                           Percentile of median student in Group-AE
                                                                   Excl. existing users             Among all students


                                                                Baseline      Endline   Change   Baseline   Endline   Change

                                                                (1)           (2)       (3)      (4)        (5)       (6)

Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes
A.1.2     Ranked high: foreign websites                         50            59          9      50         58          8
A.1.6     Freq. of visiting foreign websites for info.          51            72         21      44         64         20
A.2.1     Purchase discounted tool we offered                     -           55         7         -        55         8
A.2.2     Purchase any tool                                       -           73         32        -        61         28
A.3       Valuation of access to foreign media outlets          51            68         17      45         62         17
A.4       Trust in non-domestic media outlets                   49            71         22      43         64         21
A.5.1     Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets         53            65         12      52         63         11
A.5.2     Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets          50            67         17      45         62         17
A.6       Censorship unjustified                                51            61         10      48         57          9
A.7.1     Domestic cens. driven by govt. policies               49            55         6       51         52          1
A.7.2     Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies                50            49         -1      55         50         -5

Panel B: Knowledge
B.2.a     % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news    54            60          6      50         56          6
B.2.b     % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news       49            51          2      49         49          0
B.3.a     % protests in Greater China heard of                  51            60         9       47         57         10
B.3.b     % foreign protests heard of                           54            55         1       49         55          6
B.3.c     Heard of fake protest                                 54            52         -2      53         50         -3
B.5       Self-assessment of knowledge level                    48            48          0      45         45          0

Panel C: Economic beliefs
C.1       Optimistic belief of Chinese economy                  52            71         19      45         61         16
C.2       Confidence of guesses on Chinese economy              49            50          1      49         49          0
C.3       Optimistic belief of US economy                        -            70         38       -         64         36
C.4       Confidence of guesses on US economy                    -            49         -2       -         49         -1

Panel D: Political attitudes
D.1       Demand for institutional change                       50            62         12      47         59         12
D.2.a     Trust in Chinese govt.                                50            66         16      46         62         16
D.2.b     Trust in foreign govt.                                50            59          9      47         56          9
D.3       Satisfaction of govt’s performance                    50            62         12      49         58          9
D.6       Living in democracy is not important                  48            57         9       44         55         11
D.8       Willingness to act                                    50            55         5       47         54         7

Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors
E.1.1     Frequency of discussing poli. with friends            46            56         10      42         53         11
E.1.2     Frequency of persuading others                        51            52          1      49         51          2
E.2.1     Protests concerning social issues                     49            48         -1      51         51          0
E.2.2     Plan to vote for local PCR                            52            52         0       51         52          1
                                                                                                  Continued on next page


                                                         A.93
                                                                                Percentile of median student in Group-AE
                                                                        Excl. existing users             Among all students


                                                                     Baseline      Endline   Change   Baseline   Endline   Change

                                                                     (1)           (2)       (3)      (4)        (5)       (6)

  E.2.3     Complain to school authorities                           51            54          3      52         53          1
  E.3.1     Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.                 49            49          0      53         48         -5
  E.4.2     Plan: master degree abroad                               52            57          5      53         55          2
  E.5.5     Sector pref.: foreign firm in China                      51            51          0      49         51          2
  E.5.16    Location pref.: foreign cities                           51            53          2      50         52          2

            Overall z-score                                          51            62         11      47         56          9

Notes: Quantile movement is calculated as the change of the median Group-AE students’ percentile of a correspond-
ing variable in baseline survey across the distribution of all study participants who are not existing users of censorship
circumvention tools at the tile of baseline survey (columns 1-3) or across the distribution of the entire study partici-
pants (column 4-6), compared to that in the endline survey. We randomly break the ties in the percentile rankings.
For “degree of censorship on foreign news outlets”, “optimistic belief of Chinese economy”, “trust in Chinese govt.”,
“satisfaction of govt’s performance”, and “living in democracy is not important”, we flip the original variable so that
the treatment effect is positive. For outcomes in each category, we present quantile movement on the z-score index if
available, or on one key outcome variable within the category if otherwise. “Overall z-score” is calculated using all the
individual outcome variables listed in the table. The z-score indices (weighting by the inverse covariance of the stan-
dardized variables) and the FDR-adjusted p-values are computed following Anderson (2008). If the outcomes are not
elicited in the baseline survey, we use the Group-C students answers at endline survey as a proxy benchmark to calcu-
late the quantile movement. Sample is restricted to 1,372 completed endline surveys (April 2017).




                                                          A.94
                         Table A.13: Persuasion rates of exposure to uncensored Internet

                                                                                     Persuasion rates
                                                                                            (1)

Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs, and attitudes
A.1.2                Ranked high: foreign websites                                          27.3%
A.1.6                Freq. of visiting foreign websites for info.                          129.9%
A.2.1                Purchase discounted tool we offered                                   35.1%
A.2.2                Purchase any tool                                                     78.0%
A.3                  Valuation of access to foreign media outlets                          93.8%
A.4                  Trust in non-domestic media outlets                                   121.9%
A.5.1                Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets                         63.4%
A.5.2                Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets                          88.3%
A.6                  Censorship unjustified                                                59.8%
A.7.1                Domestic cens. driven by govt. policies                               148.5%
A.7.2                Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies                                 41.7%

Panel B: Knowledge
B.2.a                % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news                    56.9%
B.2.b                % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news                       9.2%
B.3.a                % protests in Greater China heard of                                  55.0%
B.3.b                % foreign protests heard of                                           19.6%
B.3.c                Heard of fake protest                                                 3.7%
B.5                  Self-assessment of knowledge level                                    -3.7%

Panel C: Economic beliefs
C.1                  Optimistic belief of Chinese economy                                  138.1%
C.2                  Confidence of guesses on Chinese economy                               13.4%
C.3                  Optimistic belief of US economy                                       113.5%
C.4                  Confidence of guesses on US economy                                    -3.3%

Panel D: Political attitudes
D.1                  Demand for institutional change                                       74.8%
D.2.a                Trust in Chinese govt.                                                106.8%
D.2.b                Trust in foreign govt.                                                 48.8%
D.3                  Satisfaction of govt’s performance                                    82.0%
D.6                  Living in democracy is not important                                  26.9%
D.8                  Willingness to act                                                    38.5%

Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors
E.1.1                Frequency of discussing poli. with friends                            31.8%
E.1.2                Frequency of persuading others                                        20.8%
E.2.1                Protests concerning social issues                                      0.8%
E.2.2                Plan to vote for local PCR                                            11.5%
E.2.3                Complain to school authorities                                        13.0%
E.3.1                Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.                              259.9%
E.4.2                Plan: master degree abroad                                            27.0%
E.5.5                Sector pref.: foreign firm in China                                   27.6%
                                                                                Continued on next page


                                                         A.95
                                                                                           Persuasion rates
                                                                                                  (1)

  E.5.16               Location pref.: foreign cities                                           20.1%

Notes: Persuasion rates are calculated as the treatment-on-the-treated effect of access plus encouragement treatments, di-
vided by the share of Group-AE students who do not hold “uncensored beliefs” at the time of baseline survey. If the
outcomes are not elicited in the baseline survey, we use the Group-C students answers at endline survey as a proxy. For
questions that do not have a binary outcome, persuasion rates are calculated based on a transformed dependent vari-
able, which equals one if the outcome is greater than or equal to the median answer, adjusted by direction when neces-
sary. For outcomes in each category, we present persuasion rates on the z-score index if available, or on one key outcome
variable within the category if otherwise. The z-score indices (weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized
variables) are computed following Anderson (2008). Sample is restricted to 1,130 completed endline surveys from stu-
dents who have not been using censorship circumvention product at the time of baseline survey (November 2015).




                                                          A.96
                               Table A.14: Heterogeneity of treatment effects




                                            A: Media-related behaviors,
                                                                                                                                                    E. Behaviors


                                                                                                   C. Economic beliefs     D. Political attitudes
                                            beliefs and attitudes                 B. Knowledge                                                      & planned behaviors

                                                  (1)                              (2)             (3)                     (4)                           (5)

                          Group-AE          1.346                                 0.228           0.235                   0.762                      0.065
                                           [0.213]                               [0.259]         [0.275]                 [0.241]                    [0.257]
AE ⇥ (A) media-related above median         0.188                                 0.132           0.034                  -0.009                      0.059
                                           [0.093]                               [0.113]         [0.120]                 [0.105]                    [0.112]
  AE ⇥ (B) knowledge above median          -0.048                                -0.194          -0.233                  -0.141                      0.086
                                           [0.093]                               [0.113]         [0.120]                 [0.105]                    [0.113]
 AE ⇥ (C) econ. beliefs above median       -0.064                                -0.048           0.079                  -0.082                     -0.123
                                           [0.091]                               [0.110]         [0.117]                 [0.102]                    [0.109]
AE ⇥ (D) pol. attitudes above median       -0.157                                -0.064          -0.181                  -0.044                     -0.047
                                           [0.092]                               [0.112]         [0.119]                 [0.104]                    [0.111]
    AE ⇥ (E) behaviors above median         0.041                                 0.062           0.018                   0.066                      0.108
                                           [0.095]                               [0.115]         [0.122]                 [0.107]                    [0.115]
                         AE ⇥ male          -0.032                                -0.004          -0.143                  0.141                      -0.006
                                           [0.101]                               [0.123]         [0.130]                 [0.114]                    [0.122]
                   AE ⇥ upper class         0.078                                 0.014           0.153                   0.086                      -0.054
                                           [0.110]                               [0.134]         [0.142]                 [0.125]                    [0.133]
                       AE ⇥ coastal        -0.064                                 0.001           0.207                   -0.030                     -0.092
                                           [0.093]                               [0.113]         [0.120]                 [0.105]                    [0.113]
                        AE ⇥ urban          0.214                                 -0.125          0.127                   -0.009                     0.047
                                           [0.139]                               [0.169]         [0.179]                 [0.157]                    [0.168]
                    AE ⇥ elite univ.       -0.196                                 0.117           0.086                  -0.135                      0.063
                                           [0.118]                               [0.144]         [0.153]                 [0.134]                    [0.143]
                  AE ⇥ science track       -0.018                                 0.213           0.283                   0.052                      0.083
                                           [0.130]                               [0.157]         [0.167]                 [0.146]                    [0.156]
             AE ⇥ SocS/Hum major            0.019                                 0.251           0.155                   0.002                      0.114
                                           [0.115]                               [0.140]         [0.148]                 [0.130]                    [0.139]
           AE ⇥ at least Eng Level 4       -0.019                                -0.134          -0.029                   0.173                      -0.103
                                           [0.109]                               [0.133]         [0.141]                 [0.123]                    [0.132]
          AE ⇥ taken TOEFL/IELTS            0.077                                 0.080           0.053                  -0.206                     -0.190
                                           [0.151]                               [0.183]         [0.194]                 [0.170]                    [0.182]
              AE ⇥ been to HK/TW           -0.323                                -0.137           0.135                   0.043                      -0.273
                                           [0.132]                               [0.161]         [0.170]                 [0.149]                    [0.160]
                  AE ⇥ been abroad         -0.074                                 0.350           0.110                   0.062                      -0.001
                                           [0.121]                               [0.147]         [0.156]                 [0.136]                    [0.146]
               AE ⇥ father above hs        -0.182                                 0.252           0.134                  -0.226                      0.053
                                           [0.145]                               [0.177]         [0.187]                 [0.164]                    [0.175]
         AE ⇥ father works for govt.       -0.123                                -0.151           0.081                   -0.058                     0.230
                                           [0.118]                               [0.144]         [0.153]                 [0.134]                    [0.143]
                                                                                                                         Continued on next page


                                                                          A.97
                                                 A: Media-related behaviors,
                                                                                                                                                         E. Behaviors


                                                                                                        C. Economic beliefs     D. Political attitudes
                                                 beliefs and attitudes                 B. Knowledge                                                      & planned behaviors

                                                       (1)                              (2)             (3)                     (4)                           (5)

            AE ⇥ father is CCP member           -0.119                                -0.010           -0.136                  -0.203                     -0.262
                                                [0.105]                               [0.128]         [0.136]                 [0.119]                    [0.127]
                  AE ⇥ mother above hs          -0.003                                -0.035          -0.035                   0.171                      0.067
                                                [0.142]                               [0.172]         [0.183]                 [0.160]                    [0.171]
           AE ⇥ mother works for govt.           0.155                                 0.145            0.014                  0.206                     -0.079
                                                [0.120]                               [0.146]         [0.155]                 [0.136]                    [0.145]
           AE ⇥ mother is CCP member             0.105                                -0.339           -0.239                  0.119                      -0.138
                                                [0.118]                               [0.143]         [0.152]                 [0.133]                    [0.142]
         AE ⇥ hh income above median             0.012                                -0.232          -0.325                   0.063                      0.090
                                                [0.108]                               [0.131]         [0.139]                 [0.122]                    [0.130]
          AE ⇥ risk pref. above median          -0.149                                 0.029           0.123                  -0.150                     -0.098
                                                [0.092]                               [0.112]         [0.118]                 [0.104]                    [0.111]
          AE ⇥ time pref. above median          -0.026                                -0.132          -0.044                   0.026                      0.034
                                                [0.090]                               [0.109]         [0.116]                 [0.102]                    [0.109]
           AE ⇥ altruism above median            0.049                                -0.080           -0.001                  0.196                      0.107
                                                [0.093]                               [0.113]         [0.119]                 [0.105]                    [0.112]
            AE ⇥ recipro. above median           0.226                                 0.190           0.005                  -0.020                      0.039
                                                [0.091]                               [0.111]         [0.117]                 [0.103]                    [0.110]

           Mean (all non-existing users)         -0.186                               -0.108          -0.125                  -0.139                     -0.090
        Std. dev. (all non-existing users)        0.959                                0.982           0.997                   0.955                      0.947
                    Mean (control group)         -0.811                               -0.327          -0.418                  -0.556                     -0.294
                Std. dev. (control group)         0.681                                0.896           0.923                   0.906                      0.850
                    Mean (existing users)         0.867                                0.503           0.584                   0.647                      0.419
                Std. dev. (existing users)        0.681                                0.931           0.783                   0.952                      1.129
Notes: Regression coefficient estimates of the treatment effect of access and encouragement treatments combined (AE)
on the z-score index that summarizes each of the 5 categories of outcomes of interests elicited at the endline survey,
subsample indicators, and the corresponding interaction terms between AE treatment indicator and the subsample in-
dicators. Students in the C, CE, and A groups are pooled in order to maximize power. Subsample indicators are con-
structed using all 5 outcome categories elicited in the baseline survey, and all demographic characteristics and funda-
mental preferences (described in Appendix D, Panel F), except for the dimensions with highly skew distribution. For
example, we do not construct subsample indicator based on students’ membership in the Chinese Communist Party,
because only 6% of the study participants are party members. For space constraint, we do not show the coefficient es-
timates of the subsample indicators. The z-score indices (weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized vari-
ables) and the FDR-adjusted p-values are computed following Anderson (2008). Coefficients are estimated using 1,130
completed endline surveys from students who have not been using censorship circumvention product at the time of
baseline survey (November 2015).




                                                                               A.98
                                                        Table A.15: Estimation of social learning model - knowledge




                                                          Steel production reduction                   Film on HK independence                                                                                                                                                             Foreign leaders involved   Overall percentage of
                                                                                                                                 Trump registered                                               Feminist groups fight                     Xinjiang installed GPS   Cause of stock market
                                                                                                                                                       China and Norway    Carrie Lam becomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jiahua Xiao
                                                                                       Censorship of

                                                          reaches target
                                                                                       the Economist
                                                                                                       winning award             trademarks in China   re-normalize ties   HK Chief Executive   women’s right           kidnapped in HK   on all automobiles       crash in Jan. 2016      in Panama Papers           quizzes correctly answered
                         Poli. sensitive news events:
                                                                 (1)                      (2)                 (3)                    (4)                   (5)                 (6)                    (7)                   (8)                (9)                    (10)                     (11)                        (12)

         Panel A: Reduced form analyses
                                      Access & active     0.094                         0.104           0.106                     0.156                 0.172               0.185                0.197                   0.228             0.283                    0.285                   0.332                      0.204
                                                         [0.056]                       [0.059]         [0.059]                   [0.061]               [0.061]             [0.061]              [0.064]                 [0.056]           [0.058]                  [0.049]                 [0.040]                    [0.022]
                               Roommate w/ access         0.023                         0.040           0.038                     0.018                 0.075               0.047                0.078                   0.127             0.177                    0.151                   0.222                      0.076
                                                         [0.056]                       [0.059]         [0.059]                   [0.061]               [0.061]             [0.062]              [0.064]                 [0.056]           [0.058]                  [0.049]                 [0.040]                    [0.022]
A.99       Access & active ⇥ Roommate w/ access           -0.001                        -0.017         -0.017                     -0.047                -0.062              0.002                -0.047                  -0.078           -0.121                    -0.047                  -0.114                     -0.032
                                                         [0.071]                       [0.076]         [0.076]                   [0.078]               [0.078]             [0.078]              [0.082]                 [0.071]           [0.074]                  [0.063]                 [0.052]                    [0.028]

         Panel B: Implied social transmission rates
             Transmission rate (receiver w/ access)       0.086                         0.072           0.067                     0.044                 0.107               0.113                0.139                   0.162             0.237                    0.187                   0.249                      0.118
                                                         [0.206]                       [0.107]         [0.105]                   [0.151]               [0.087]             [0.150]              [0.117]                 [0.071]           [0.079]                  [0.061]                 [0.045]                    [0.034]
            Transmission rate (receiver w/o access)       0.084                         0.041           0.037                     -0.071                0.019               0.117                0.055                   0.062             0.075                    0.128                   0.121                      0.069
                                                         [0.168]                       [0.087]         [0.085]                   [0.114]               [0.068]             [0.124]              [0.093]                 [0.057]           [0.063]                  [0.052]                 [0.038]                    [0.027]

         Panel C: Predictions and out-of-sample tests
            Actual: % correct (receiver w/o access)       0.188                         0.514           0.548                     0.367                 0.703               0.328                0.531                   0.797             0.766                    0.808                   0.918                      0.614
         Predicted: % correct (receiver w/o access)       0.225                         0.528           0.534                     0.285                 0.681               0.317                0.506                   0.798             0.787                    0.799                   0.955                      0.589
                                                         [0.067]                       [0.086]         [0.087]                   [0.078]               [0.080]             [0.070]              [0.076]                 [0.069]           [0.068]                  [0.071]                 [0.057]                    [0.027]
             Actual: % correct (receiver w/ access)       0.314                         0.594           0.604                     0.441                 0.755               0.490                0.637                   0.912             0.882                    0.981                   1.000                      0.743
          Predicted: % correct (receiver w/ access)       0.317                         0.599           0.607                     0.347                 0.735               0.505                0.614                   0.883             0.856                    1.000                   1.000                      0.733
                                                         [0.071]                       [0.080]         [0.079]                   [0.084]               [0.073]             [0.079]              [0.084]                 [0.057]           [0.059]                  [0.049]                 [0.017]                    [0.024]

       Notes: “Access & active” indicates whether students have access to uncensored Internet and actively browse its content; the indicator takes value 1 if the student is an
       existing user of the censorship circumvention tool prior to the baseline survey (November 2015), or is assigned with both the access and encouragement treatments
       (Group-AE). “Roommate w/ access” indicates whether there is one college dorm roommates who are actively use censorship circumvention tool as a result of the
       experimental treatment. “Overall percentage of quizzes correctly answered” aggregates all 11 news quizzes together, and use whether roommate receives access by
       the endline survey (April 2017) in the baseline specifications. Reduced form analyses and social transmission rates estimation are conducted among students who
       have completed the corresponding wave of the survey, have no roommates who were existing users of the censorship circumvention tool prior to the baseline survey,
       and have either 0 or 1 roommates who are actively use censorship circumvention tool as a result of the experimental treatment. Out-of-sample tests are conducted
       among students who have at least 2 roommates who are actively use censorship circumvention tool as a result of the experimental treatment; bootstrapped standard
       errors are shown in brackets. See Appendix H for more details.
       Table A.16: Estimation of social learning model - all endline outcomes




                                                 A: Media-related behaviors,
                                                                                                                                                  E. Behaviors


                                                                                                 C. Economic beliefs     D. Political attitudes
                                                 beliefs and attitudes          B. Knowledge                                                      & planned behaviors

                                                       (1)                       (2)             (3)                     (4)                           (5)

                            Access & active      1.451                          0.822           0.781                   0.851                      0.296
                                                [0.101]                        [0.124]         [0.128]                 [0.114]                    [0.122]
                      Roommate w/ access         0.273                          0.405          -0.057                   -0.074                     0.073
                                                [0.101]                        [0.124]         [0.129]                 [0.114]                    [0.122]
  Access & active ⇥ Roommate w/ access           -0.261                         -0.232         -0.212                   0.124                      0.054
                                                [0.129]                        [0.158]         [0.163]                 [0.145]                    [0.156]

              Mean (all non-existing users)     -0.186     -0.108    -0.125    -0.139    -0.090
           Std. dev. (all non-existing users)    0.959      0.982     0.997     0.955     0.947
                       Mean (control group)     -0.811     -0.327    -0.418    -0.556    -0.294
                   Std. dev. (control group)     0.681     0.896      0.923     0.906     0.850
                       Mean (existing users)     0.867      0.503     0.584     0.647     0.419
                   Std. dev. (existing users)    0.681     0.931      0.783     0.952     1.129
Notes: Survey outcomes in each of the A-E categories are summarized by an z-score in-
dex, weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized variables, following Anderson
(2008). “Access & active” indicates whether students have access to uncensored Internet and
actively browse its content; the indicator takes value 1 if the student is an existing user of the
censorship circumvention tool prior to the baseline survey (November 2015), or is assigned
with both the access and encouragement treatments (Group-AE). “Roommate w/ access” in-
dicates whether there is one college dorm roommates who are actively use censorship cir-
cumvention tool as a result of the experimental treatment. Sample is restricted to students
who have completed the corresponding wave of the survey, have no roommates who were
existing users of the censorship circumvention tool prior to the baseline survey, and have ei-
ther 0 or 1 roommates who are actively use censorship circumvention tool as a result of the
experimental treatment.




                                              A.100
                                                     Table A.17: Effects of access & encouragement treatment - midline results

                                                                                             Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE       Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                                          FDR adj.   mean        std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                                      beta       s.e.     p-value    ex.var.      ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                                       (1)        (2)          (3)     (4)         (5)        (6)            (7)


        Panel A: Media-related behaviors, beliefs and attitudes
        Category A.1: Information source and media consumption
        A.1.1      Ranked high: domestic websites                                    -0.326     [0.086]         -     3.957       1.066      4.076          3.399
        A.1.2      Ranked high: foreign websites                                      0.655     [0.076]         -     2.161       1.037      1.818          2.722
        A.1.3      Ranked high: domestic social media                                -0.113     [0.075]         -     4.211       0.940      4.294          4.088
        A.1.4      Ranked high: foreign social media                                  0.327     [0.068]         -     1.603       0.900      1.465          2.023
        A.1.5      Ranked high: word of mouth                                        -0.536     [0.087]         -     3.061       1.033      3.335          2.761
        A.1.6      Frequency of visiting foreign websites for info.                  1.886      [0.128]         -     3.738       1.614      2.835          5.248

        Category A.3: Valuation of access to foreign media outlets
        A.3.1      Willingness to pay for circumvention tool                         9.683      [1.350]    0.001     23.00        16.95      17.70          33.94
A.101
        A.3.2      Value added of foreign media access                               0.706      [0.148]    0.001     6.512        1.613      6.188          7.023
                   z-score: valuation of access to foreign media outlets             0.640      [0.081]      -       -0.114       0.961      -0.438         0.489

        Category A.4: Trust in media outlets
        A.4.1      Distrust in domestic state-owned media                            0.856      [0.199]    0.001     5.149        2.233      4.706          5.935
        A.4.2      Distrust in domestic privately-owned media                        0.940      [0.152]    0.001     4.546        1.922      4.047          5.141
        A.4.3      Trust in foreign media                                            0.714      [0.150]    0.001     6.234        1.739      5.935          6.882
                   z-score: trust in non-domestic media outlets                      0.729      [0.079]      -       -0.111       0.996      -0.461         0.477

        Category A.5: Belief regarding level of actual media censorship
        A.5.1      Degree of censorship on domestic news outlets                     0.786      [0.160]         -     7.558       1.804      7.159          8.307
        A.5.2      Degree of censorship on foreign news outlets                      -1.137     [0.162]         -     5.757       1.906      6.394          4.902

        Category A.6: Justification of media censorship
        A.6.1      Unjustified: censoring economic news                               1.718     [0.173]    0.001      4.640       2.178      3.747          5.487
        A.6.2      Unjustified: censoring political news                              1.490     [0.238]    0.001      5.848       2.748      5.176          7.042
        A.6.3      Unjustified: censoring social news                                 0.149     [0.222]    0.336      5.637       2.653      5.641          6.281
        A.6.4      Unjustified: censoring foreign news                               -0.100     [0.225]    0.358      5.571       2.602      5.700          6.118
                                                                                                                                                Continued on next page
                                                                                 Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                              FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                         beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                          (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)

        A.6.5      Unjustified: censoring pornography                    0.760      [0.254]    0.004     4.273      2.900      3.776          4.487
                   z-score: censorship unjustified                       0.437      [0.088]      -       -0.066     0.985      -0.289         0.285

        Category A.7: Belief regarding drivers of media censorship
        A.7.1      Domestic cens. driven by govt. policies                0.140     [0.033]         -    0.859      0.348      0.794          0.974
        A.7.2      Domestic cens. driven by corp. interest               -0.069     [0.025]         -    0.069      0.253      0.106          0.007
        A.7.3      Domestic cens. driven by media’s ideology             -0.045     [0.020]         -    0.050      0.217      0.065          0.016
        A.7.4      Domestic cens. driven by readers’ demand              -0.026     [0.015]         -    0.023      0.150      0.035          0.003
        A.7.5      Foreign cens. driven by govt. policies                 0.016     [0.031]         -    0.152      0.359      0.141          0.056
        A.7.6      Foreign cens. driven by corp. interest                 0.097     [0.041]         -    0.376      0.485      0.306          0.438
        A.7.7      Foreign cens. driven by media’s ideology              -0.077     [0.042]         -    0.337      0.473      0.394          0.366
        A.7.8      Foreign cens. driven by readers’ demand               -0.037     [0.031]         -    0.135      0.342      0.159          0.141

        Category A.8: Calibration of news outlets’ level of censorship
A.102   A.8.1      Censorship: Chinese media on neg. news in China        0.251     [0.033]    0.001     0.257      0.437      0.124          0.294
        A.8.2      Censorship: Chinese media on pos. news in China       -0.000     [0.000]    1.000     0.001      0.028      0.000          0.000
        A.8.3      Censorship: Chinese media on neg. news in US           0.000     [0.000]    1.000     0.046      0.209      0.035          0.036
        A.8.4      Censorship: Chinese media on pos. news in US           0.023     [0.017]    0.382     0.046      0.209      0.035          0.036
                   z-score: censorship calibration of Chinese media       0.317     [0.050]      -       -0.004     1.017      -0.202         0.017
        A.8.5      Censorship: US media on neg. news in China             0.002     [0.002]    0.393     0.002      0.048      0.000          0.010
        A.8.6      Censorship: US media on pos. news in China             0.005     [0.010]    0.469     0.018      0.131      0.012          0.016
        A.8.7      Censorship: US media on neg. news in US                0.014     [0.008]    0.393     0.018      0.134      0.006          0.010
        A.8.8      Censorship: US media on pos. news in US               -0.000     [0.000]    0.393     0.002      0.039      0.000          0.000
                   z-score: censorship calibration of US media            0.080     [0.049]      -       -0.002     0.984      -0.105         0.010

        Category A.9: Calibration of news outlets’ bias
        A.9.1      Bias: Chinese media on neg. news in China             0.500      [0.074]    0.001     1.509      0.950      1.235          1.621
        A.9.2      Bias: Chinese media on pos. news in China             0.388      [0.059]    0.001     1.618      0.610      1.400          1.765
        A.9.3      Bias: Chinese media on neg. news in US                0.376      [0.066]    0.001     1.233      0.796      1.029          1.343
        A.9.4      Bias: Chinese media on pos. news in US                0.101      [0.063]    0.029     0.686      0.750      0.629          0.663
                   z-score: bias calibration of Chinese media            0.666      [0.085]      -       -0.032     1.019      -0.401         0.139
        A.9.5      Bias: US media on neg. news in China                  -0.372     [0.070]    0.001     1.004      0.804      1.200          0.941
                                                                                                                                  Continued on next page
                                                                                              Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C   Existing users
                                                                                                           FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean          mean
                                                                                       beta       s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.       ex.var.
                                                                                       (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)           (7)

        A.9.6     Bias: US media on pos. news in China                              0.053        [0.054]    0.544     0.831      0.658      0.788          0.824
        A.9.7     Bias: US media on neg. news in US                                 0.019        [0.059]    0.885     0.754      0.698      0.729          0.716
        A.9.8     Bias: US media on pos. news in US                                -0.056        [0.060]    0.544     0.869      0.670      0.912          0.941
                  z-score: bias calibration of US media                            -0.162        [0.086]      -       0.002      1.009      0.078         -0.008


        Panel B: Knowledge
        Category B.1: Current news events covered in the encouragement treatment
        B.1.1     New report on income inequality in China                         0.257         [0.041]    0.001     0.721      0.449      0.576         0.804
        B.1.2     Termination of Caixin PMI publication                            0.208         [0.040]    0.001     0.748      0.435      0.635         0.768
        B.1.3     Labor unrest in China during Jan. 2016                           0.227         [0.042]    0.001     0.658      0.474      0.535         0.742
        B.1.4     Widespread underground water pollution                           0.100         [0.036]    0.002     0.832      0.374      0.765         0.843
                  % quizzes answered correctly: news in encouragement treatment    0.198         [0.022]      -       0.740      0.252      0.628         0.789

A.103   Category B.2: Current news events not covered in the encouragement treatment
        B.2.5     Foreign leaders involved in Panama Papers                        0.132         [0.029]    0.001     0.902      0.298      0.835         0.948
        B.2.6     Film on HK independence winning award                            0.177         [0.043]    0.001     0.514      0.500      0.424         0.641
        B.2.7     Cause of stock market crash in Jan. 2016                         0.137         [0.036]    0.001     0.815      0.388      0.741         0.886
        B.2.8     Censorship of “Economist”                                        0.118         [0.044]    0.002     0.508      0.500      0.453         0.578
                  % quizzes answered correctly: poli. sensitive news               0.141         [0.022]      -       0.685      0.234      0.613         0.763
        B.2.20    Apple vs. FBI on San Bernardino shooting                         0.015         [0.042]    0.941     0.662      0.473      0.659         0.699
        B.2.21    Taiwanese presidential election in 2016                          0.062         [0.044]    0.880     0.471      0.499      0.424         0.507
        B.2.22    Cause of Beijing Yihe hotel attack incidence                     0.036         [0.043]    0.880     0.426      0.495      0.406         0.386
                  % quizzes answered correctly: nonsensitive news                  0.037         [0.024]      -       0.520      0.286      0.496         0.531

        Category B.3: Awareness of protests and independence movements
        B.3.1     2012 HK Anti-National Curr. Movement                             0.115         [0.029]    0.001     0.153      0.360      0.100         0.255
        B.3.2     2014 HK Umbrella Revolution                                      0.147         [0.033]    0.001     0.212      0.409      0.141         0.376
        B.3.3     2016 HK Mong Kok Revolution                                      0.142         [0.034]    0.001     0.229      0.420      0.159         0.382
        B.3.4     2014 Taiwan Sunflower Stud. Movement                             0.078         [0.043]    0.019     0.596      0.491      0.559         0.719
                  % protests in Greater China heard of                             0.114         [0.025]      -       0.320      0.296      0.267         0.450
        B.3.5     2014 Ukrainian Euromaidan Revolution                             0.022         [0.042]    0.177     0.352      0.478      0.341         0.451
        B.3.6     2010 Arab Spring                                                 0.088         [0.039]    0.053     0.743      0.437      0.700         0.889
                                                                                                                                              Continued on next page
                                                                          Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                       FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                  beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                   (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)

        B.3.7     2014 Crimean Status Referendum                  0.064      [0.036]    0.057     0.793      0.405      0.765          0.905
        B.3.8     2010 Catalonian Indep. Movement                 0.090      [0.038]    0.053     0.265      0.441      0.224          0.444
                  % foreign protests heard of                     0.066      [0.024]      -       0.538      0.282      0.507          0.672
        B.3.9     2011 Tomorrow Revolution [fake]                 -0.014     [0.028]         -    0.108      0.310      0.118          0.108

        Category B.4: Awareness of notable figures
        B.4.1     Zhiqiang Pu                                     0.103      [0.038]    0.004     0.266      0.442      0.224          0.359
        B.4.2     Zhiqiang Ren                                    0.106      [0.034]    0.003     0.843      0.364      0.794          0.869
        B.4.3     Joshua Wong                                     0.131      [0.025]    0.001     0.130      0.337      0.065          0.366
                  % recently featured censored figures heard of   0.149      [0.027]      -       0.555      0.307      0.509          0.614
        B.4.4     Zehou Li                                        0.038      [0.044]    1.000     0.568      0.496      0.553          0.667
        B.4.5     Guangcheng Cheng                                0.047      [0.038]    1.000     0.265      0.441      0.241          0.337
        B.4.6     Xiaolin Li                                      0.016      [0.039]    1.000     0.279      0.449      0.271          0.405
                  % non-recent censored figures heard of          0.058      [0.023]      -       0.310      0.262      0.282          0.444
A.104
        B.4.7     Yushi Mao                                       -0.036     [0.044]    1.000     0.499      0.500      0.518          0.487
        B.4.8     Huang Hong                                      -0.017     [0.041]    1.000     0.309      0.462      0.324          0.330
        B.4.9     Qiangdong Liu                                    0.012     [0.018]    1.000     0.959      0.199      0.953          0.967
                  % uncensored figures heard of                   -0.013     [0.024]      -       0.589      0.269      0.589          0.568
        B.4.10    Lequn Jia [fake]                                -0.014     [0.021]         -    0.052      0.222      0.065          0.042

        Category B.5: Self-assessment of knowledge level
        B.5.1     Informedness of issues in China                  0.459     [0.165]    0.004      4.331     1.968       4.118         4.908
        B.5.2     Greater informedness than peers                 -0.737     [0.159]    0.001      3.664     1.797       4.000         4.833
                  z-score: self-assessment of knowledge level     -0.107     [0.085]      -       -0.109     0.959      -0.062         0.467


        Panel C: Economic beliefs
        Category C.1: Belief on economic performance in China
        C.1.1     Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 China          -1.319     [0.256]    0.001      6.973     2.520       7.648         5.905
        C.1.2     Guess of SSCI by end of 2016                    -369.0     [40.58]    0.001     3058.2     452.1      3248.5        2887.4
                  z-score: optimistic belief of Chinese economy   -0.899     [0.094]      -        0.130     1.012      0.593         -0.557
                                                                                                                           Continued on next page
                                                                                              Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                                           FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                                      beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                                       (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)


        Category C.2: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in China
        C.2.1     Confidence of China GDP guess                                       0.118      [0.197]    0.380     4.529      2.184      4.382          4.863
        C.2.2     Confidence of SSCI guess                                            0.252      [0.166]    0.352     2.124      1.929      1.918          2.389
                  z-score: confidence of guesses on Chinese economy                   0.106      [0.088]      -       -0.032     0.998      -0.132         0.136

        Category C.3: Belief on economic performance in the US
        C.3.1     Guess on GDP growth rate in 2016 US                              0.952         [0.109]    0.001      3.171    1.608       2.711          3.517
        C.3.2     Guess on DJI by end of 2016                                      1247.1        [169.1]    0.001     17269.2   1958.2     16618.4        18026.3
                  z-score: optimistic belief of US economy                         0.848         [0.074]      -        -0.079   1.005       -0.505         0.337

        Category C.4: Confidence on guesses regarding economic performance in US
        C.4.1     Confidence of US GDP guess                                          0.391      [0.176]    0.058     2.757      2.075      2.447          3.026
        C.4.2     Confidence of DJI guess                                             0.072      [0.147]    0.454     1.558      1.683      1.488          1.817
A.105             z-score: confidence of guesses on US economy                        0.131      [0.088]      -       -0.030     1.002      -0.138         0.130


        Panel D: Political attitudes
        Category D.1: Demand for institutional change
        D.1.1     Economic system needs changes                                       1.024      [0.175]    0.001     5.191      1.998      4.712          5.980
        D.1.2     Political system needs changes                                      1.271      [0.186]    0.001     5.274      2.456      4.624          6.516
                  z-score: demand for institutional change                            0.590      [0.085]      -       -0.098     0.996      -0.388         0.421

        Category D.2: Trust in institutions
        D.2.1     Trust in central govt. of China                                  -1.436        [0.177]    0.001      6.500     2.217      7.312           5.676
        D.2.2     Trust in provincial govt. of China                               -1.274        [0.180]    0.001      5.466     2.108      6.194           4.735
        D.2.3     Trust in local govt. of China                                    -1.211        [0.181]    0.001      4.355     2.118      5.024           3.644
                  z-score: trust in Chinese govt.                                  -0.669        [0.081]      -        0.074     0.990      0.447          -0.315
        D.2.4     Trust in court                                                   -0.004        [0.167]    1.000      6.723     1.918      6.694           6.503
        D.2.5     Trust in police                                                  -0.168        [0.172]    1.000      6.168     1.958      6.212           5.899
                  z-score: trust in court and police                               -0.047        [0.087]      -        0.026     0.985      0.029          -0.109
        D.2.6     Trust in domestic financial inst.                                -0.989        [0.165]         -     6.248     1.887      6.765          5.369
                                                                                                                                               Continued on next page
                                                                                             Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                                          FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                                     beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                                      (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)

        D.2.7      Trust in central govt. of Japan                                   1.021      [0.191]    0.001     3.761      2.205      3.218          4.742
        D.2.8      Trust in federal govt. of US                                      0.847      [0.186]    0.001     4.847      2.100      4.441          5.680
                   z-score: trust in foreign govt.                                   0.460      [0.087]      -       -0.085     0.984      -0.318         0.362
        D.2.9      Trust in foreign financial inst.                                  0.239      [0.174]         -    5.379      1.857      5.188          5.435
        D.2.10     Trust in NGOs                                                     1.052      [0.170]         -    5.670      1.925      5.165          6.121

        Category D.3: Evaluation of government’s performance
        D.3.1      Satisfaction of economic dev.                                     -1.353     [0.156]    0.001     5.641      1.882      6.347           4.725
        D.3.2      Satisfaction of domestic politics                                 -1.291     [0.183]    0.001     5.305      2.220      6.041           4.435
        D.3.3      Satisfaction of diplomatic affairs                                -0.134     [0.159]    0.153     6.297      1.854      6.435           6.042
                   z-score: satisfaction of govt’s performance                       -0.504     [0.083]      -       0.073      0.990      0.362          -0.312

        Category D.4: Performance evaluation criteria
A.106   D.4.1      Importance: universal suffrage                                     0.006     [0.004]         -    0.091      0.043      0.086          0.094
        D.4.2      Importance: civil and human rights                                -0.005     [0.002]         -    0.138      0.022      0.140          0.141
        D.4.3      Importance: economic dev.                                          0.002     [0.002]         -    0.135      0.025      0.134          0.132
        D.4.4      Importance: income and wealth equality                            -0.007     [0.003]         -    0.125      0.028      0.130          0.124
        D.4.5      Importance: rule of law                                            0.000     [0.002]         -    0.143      0.022      0.144          0.145
        D.4.6      Importance: freedom of speech                                     -0.001     [0.002]         -    0.124      0.024      0.125          0.130
        D.4.7      Importance: intl. affairs                                          0.004     [0.003]         -    0.120      0.030      0.118          0.112
        D.4.8      Importance: handle history fairly                                  0.001     [0.002]         -    0.124      0.026      0.123          0.123

        Category D.5: Evaluation of severity of socioeconomic issues
        D.5.1      Severity: social security and welfare                             1.064      [0.166]    0.001     6.850      1.900      6.288          7.572
        D.5.2      Severity: employment                                              0.881      [0.165]    0.001     6.798      1.865      6.324          7.346
        D.5.3      Severity: environmental pollution                                 0.793      [0.157]    0.001     7.925      1.669      7.559          8.562
        D.5.4      Severity: wealth inequality                                       0.812      [0.147]    0.001     7.715      1.764      7.318          8.118
        D.5.5      Severity: govt. corruption                                        1.134      [0.167]    0.001     6.695      1.995      6.335          7.634
        D.5.6      Severity: minority discrimination                                 1.839      [0.192]    0.001     3.829      2.406      2.824          4.971
                   z-score: severity of socioeconomic issues                         0.833      [0.084]      -       -0.100     1.000      -0.537         0.427

        Category D.6: Evaluation of democracy and human rights protection in China
                                                                                                                                              Continued on next page
                                                                                   Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                                FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                           beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                            (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)

        D.6.1      China cares interest for masses                         -1.054     [0.182]    0.001     5.128      2.192      5.653           4.242
        D.6.2      Level of democracy in China                             -0.696     [0.157]    0.001     4.995      1.886      5.329           4.121
        D.6.3      Level of human rights protection                        -1.033     [0.177]    0.001     5.352      1.990      5.871           4.458
        D.6.4      Living in democracy is not important                    -0.672     [0.204]    0.001     3.018      2.086      3.329           2.471
                   z-score: eval. of China’s democracy and human rights    -0.591     [0.090]      -       0.106      0.982      0.391          -0.455

        Category D.7: Justification of controversial policies and issues
        D.7.1      Justified: minority policies                            -1.464     [0.194]    0.001     6.113      2.299      6.953           4.958
        D.7.2      Justified: migration restrictions                       -1.157     [0.180]    0.001     5.149      2.293      5.765           4.327
        D.7.3      Justified: one-child policy                             -1.210     [0.202]    0.001     5.257      2.380      5.976           4.438
        D.7.4      Justified: policy towards HK                            -1.016     [0.156]    0.001     6.545      1.950      7.129           5.804
        D.7.5      Justified: policy towards Taiwan                        -0.839     [0.158]    0.001     6.378      1.941      6.776           5.761
        D.7.6      Justified: govt. use of violence                        -1.240     [0.219]    0.001     4.031      2.662      4.647           3.085
        D.7.7      Justified: refusal of DPRK refugees                     -0.869     [0.192]    0.001     4.731      2.192      5.082           4.013
        D.7.8      Justified: prod. cut to reduce pollution                 0.119     [0.162]    0.162     7.375      1.766      7.282           7.225
A.107   D.7.9      Justified: college admission policies                    0.240     [0.160]    0.053     6.939      1.832      6.853           6.977
        D.7.10     Justified: privatization of SOEs                         0.279     [0.209]    0.065     5.551      2.347      5.371           5.500
                   z-score: justification of govt. policies                -0.532     [0.082]      -       0.098      0.992      0.351          -0.420
        D.7.11     Justified: legal. of homosexual marriage                 1.164     [0.263]    0.001      6.471     2.864       5.971         7.425
        D.7.12     Justified: legal. of prostitution                        1.409     [0.238]    0.001      3.348     2.847       2.629         4.722
        D.7.13     Justified: abortion                                      1.354     [0.224]    0.001      5.263     2.628       4.524         6.291
        D.7.14     Justified: extra-marital sex                            -0.272     [0.256]    0.210      3.961     2.898       4.135         4.683
        D.7.15     Justified: transgenetic food                             0.295     [0.195]    0.109      6.101     2.163       5.882         6.235
        D.7.16     Justified: soft drugs usage                              0.039     [0.209]    0.398      2.317     2.282       2.365         2.650
                   z-score: justification of liberal issues                -0.228     [0.079]      -       -0.069     0.999      -0.228         0.296

        Category D.8: Willingness to act
        D.8.1      Willing to battle illegal govt. acts                    0.518      [0.213]    0.016     6.094      2.389      5.818          6.830
        D.8.2      Willing to report govt. misconduct                      0.319      [0.213]    0.308     4.991      2.344      5.012          5.676
        D.8.3      Willing to stand up for the weak                        0.554      [0.192]    0.013     6.107      2.067      5.829          6.565
                   z-score: willingness to act                             0.257      [0.091]      -       -0.063     1.000      -0.169         0.269

        Category D.9: Interest in politics and economics
                                                                                                                                    Continued on next page
                                                                         Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE     Group-C    Existing users
                                                                                      FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.   mean           mean
                                                                 beta        s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.   ex.var.        ex.var.
                                                                  (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)       (5)        (6)            (7)

        D.9.1      Interest in economics                         0.965      [0.219]    0.001     5.762      2.394      5.218          6.353
        D.9.2      Interest in politics                          0.670      [0.219]    0.001     5.040      2.455      4.729          5.471
                   z-score: interest in politics and economics   0.384      [0.091]      -       -0.045     1.002      -0.246         0.194

        Category D.10: National identity
        D.10.1     Proud of being Chinese                        -0.219     [0.155]         -    7.798      1.825      7.947          7.252

        Category D.11: Fear to criticize the government
        D.11.1     Fear to criticize govt. in public             0.027      [0.195]         -    5.088      2.267      5.112          5.003


        Panel E: Behaviors and planned behaviors
        Category E.1: Social interaction in politics

A.108   E.1.1      Frequency of discussing poli. with friends    0.605      [0.210]         -    4.439      2.360      4.088          5.373
        E.1.2      Frequency of persuading others                0.269      [0.218]         -    5.385      2.405      5.276          5.716

        Category E.2: Political participation
        E.2.1      Protests concerning social issues             0.011      [0.024]         -    0.083      0.276      0.076          0.101
        E.2.2      Plan to vote for local PCR                    0.025      [0.026]         -    0.102      0.303      0.088          0.101
        E.2.3      Complain to school authorities                0.022      [0.037]         -    0.238      0.426      0.229          0.258
        E.2.4      Participate in NGO activities                 0.045      [0.030]         -    0.895      0.307      0.853          0.882

        Category E.3: Investment in the Chinese stock market
        E.3.1      Currently invested in Chinese stock mkt.      -0.062     [0.021]         -    0.052      0.222      0.076          0.121

        Category E.4: Plan after graduation
        E.4.1      Plan: grad. school in China                   -0.132     [0.044]         -    0.481      0.500      0.535          0.382
        E.4.2      Plan: master degree abroad                     0.186     [0.033]         -    0.236      0.425      0.135          0.350
        E.4.3      Plan: PhD degree abroad                        0.007     [0.025]         -    0.089      0.285      0.088          0.141
        E.4.4      Plan: military in China                       -0.002     [0.006]         -    0.005      0.068      0.006          0.003
        E.4.5      Plan: work right away                         -0.009     [0.029]         -    0.117      0.321      0.129          0.095

                                                                                                                          Continued on next page
                                                                                       Group-AE effect         Groups-C,CE,A,AE      Group-C     Existing users
                                                                                                    FDR adj.   mean      std.dev.     mean          mean
                                                                                beta       s.e.     p-value    ex.var.    ex.var.     ex.var.       ex.var.
                                                                                (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)        (5)         (6)           (7)

        Category E.5: Career preferences
        E.5.1     Sector pref.: national civil service                          0.008     [0.038]         -    0.275      0.447        0.247         0.232
        E.5.2     Sector pref.: local civil service                            -0.019     [0.020]         -    0.050      0.219        0.059         0.023
        E.5.3     Sector pref.: military                                        0.016     [0.021]         -    0.077      0.267        0.059         0.065
        E.5.4     Sector pref.: private firm in China                           0.076     [0.044]         -    0.481      0.500        0.429         0.471
        E.5.5     Sector pref.: foreign firm in China                           0.020     [0.040]         -    0.706      0.456        0.706         0.817
        E.5.6     Sector pref.: SOEs                                           -0.047     [0.043]         -    0.384      0.487        0.388         0.346
        E.5.7     Sector pref.: inst. organizations                            -0.065     [0.042]         -    0.584      0.493        0.653         0.542
        E.5.8     Sector pref.: entrepreneurship                                0.010     [0.043]         -    0.368      0.482        0.382         0.412
        E.5.9     Location pref.: Beijing                                       0.004     [0.038]         -    0.275      0.447        0.253         0.261
        E.5.10    Location pref.: Shanghai                                     -0.028     [0.031]         -    0.138      0.345        0.147         0.160
        E.5.11    Location pref.: tier 2 cities in south                       -0.042     [0.025]         -    0.067      0.250        0.100         0.065
        E.5.12    Location pref.: tier 2 cities in central                      0.008     [0.019]         -    0.051      0.220        0.047         0.036
        E.5.13    Location pref.: other cities in China                        -0.032     [0.041]         -    0.297      0.457        0.324         0.206
A.109   E.5.14    Location pref.: HK and Macau                                  0.013     [0.005]         -    0.011      0.106        0.000         0.026
        E.5.15    Location pref.: Taiwan                                       -0.006     [0.009]         -    0.007      0.083        0.012         0.013
        E.5.16    Location pref.: foreign cities                                0.083     [0.030]         -    0.153      0.360        0.118         0.232

        Notes: Regression coefficient estimates of the Group-AE indicator (regression include Group-CE, Group-A, Group-AE indicators, where Group-C is the
        omitted group) are shown in column 1, robust standard errors shown in column 2, and FDR-adjusted p-values (corresponding to t-tests against the null
        hypothesis that the estimated Group-AE coefficients are zero) shown in column 3. For space constraint, we do not show coefficient estimates on Group-CE
        and Group-A indicators. The z-score indices (weighting by the inverse covariance of the standardized variables) and the FDR-adjusted p-values are com-
        puted following Anderson (2008). Coefficients are estimated using 1,312 completed midline surveys from students who have not been using censorship
        circumvention product at the time of baseline survey (November 2015).
