Bank Runs, Deposit Insurance, and Liquidity

Douglas W. Diamond
Universityof Chicago

PhilipH. Dybvig
Yale University

This paper shows that bank deposit contracts can provide allocations
superior to those of exchange markets, offering an explanation of
how banks subject to runs can attract deposits. Investors face privately observed risks which lead to a demand for liquidity. Traditional demand deposit contracts which provide liquidity have multiple equilibria, one of which is a bank run. Bank runs in the model
cause real economic damage, rather than simply reflecting other
problems. Contracts which can prevent runs are studied, and the
analysis shows that there are circumstances when government provision of deposit insurance can produce superior contracts.

I.

Introduction

Bank runs are a common feature of the extreme crises that have
played a prominent role in monetary history. During a bank run,
depositors rush to withdraw their deposits because they expect the
bank to fail. In fact, the sudden withdrawals can force the bank to
liquidate many of its assets at a loss and to fail. In a panic with many
bank failures, there is a disruption of the monetary system and a
reduction in production.
Institutions in place since the Great Depression have successfully
prevented bank runs in the United States since the 1930s. NonetheWe are grateful for helpful comments from Milt Harris, Burt Malkiel, Mike Mussa,
Art Raviv, and seminar participants at Chicago, Northwestern, Stanford, and Yale.
Journal of Political Economi, 1983, vol. 91, no. 3]
(C)1983 bh The University of Chicago. All rights reserved. 0022-3808/83/9103-0004$01.50

401

402

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

less, current deregulation and the dire financial condition of savings
and loans make bank runs and institutions to prevent them a current
policy issue, as shown by recent aborted runs.' (Internationally,
Eurodollar deposits tend to be uninsured and are therefore subject to
runs, and this is true in the United States as well for deposits above
the insured amount.) It is good that deregulation will leave banking
more competitive, but we must ensure that banks will not be left
vulnerable to runs.
Through careful description and analysis, Friedman and Schwartz
(1963) have provided substantial insight into the properties of past
bank runs in the United States. Existing theoretical analysis has neglected to explain why bank contracts are less stable than other types
of financial contracts or to investigate the strategic decisions that depositors face. The model we present has an explicit economic role for
banks to perform: the transformation of illiquid assets into liquid
liabilities. The analyses of Patinkin (1965, chap. 5), Tobin (1965), and
Niehans (1978) provide insights into characterizing the liquidity of
assets. This paper gives the first explicit analysis of the demand for
liquidity and the "transformation" service provided by banks. Uninsured demand deposit contracts are able to provide liquidity but leave
banks vulnerable to runs. This vulnerability occurs because there are
multiple equilibria with differing levels of confidence.
Our model demonstrates three important points. First, banks issuing demand deposits can improve on a competitive market by providing better risk sharing among people who need to consume at different random times. Second, the demand deposit contract providing
this improvement has an undesirable equilibrium (a bank run) in
which all depositors panic and withdraw immediately, including even
those who would prefer to leave their deposits in if they were not
concerned about the bank failing. Third, bank runs cause real economic problems because even "healthy" banks can fail, causing the
recall of loans and the termination of productive investment. In addition, our model provides a suitable framework for analysis of the
devices traditionally used to stop or prevent bank runs, namely, suspension of convertibility and demand deposit insurance (which works
similarly to a central bank serving as "lender of last resort").
The illiquidity of assets enters our model through the economy's
riskless production activity. The technology provides low levels of
output per unit of input if operated for a single period but high levels
1 The aborted runs on Hartford Federal Savings and Loan (Hartford, Conn., February 1982) and on Abilene National Bank (Abilene, Texas, July 1982) are two recent
examples. The large amounts of uninsured deposits in the recently failed Penn Square
Bank (Oklahoma City, July 1982) and its repercussions are another symptom of banks'
current problems.

BANK

RUNS

403

of output if operated for two periods. The analysis would be the same
if the asset were illiquid because of selling costs: one receives a low
return if unexpectedly forced to "liquidate" early. In fact, this illiquidity is a property of the financial assets in the economy in our model,
even though they are traded in competitive markets with no transaction costs. Agents will be concerned about the cost of being forced
into early liquidation of these assets and will write contracts which
reflect this cost. Investors face private risks which are not directly
insurable because they are not publicly verifiable. Under optimal risk
sharing, this private risk implies that agents have different time patterns of return in different private information states and that agents
want to allocate wealth unequally across private information states.
Because only the agent ever observes the private information state, it
is impossible to write insurance contracts in which the payoff depends
directly on private information, without an explicit mechanism for
information flow. Therefore, simple competitive markets cannot provide this liquidity insurance.
Banks are able to transform illiquid assets by offering liabilities with
a different, smoother pattern of returns over time than the illiquid
assets offer. These contracts have multiple equilibria. If confidence is
maintained, there can be efficient risk sharing, because in that equilibrium a withdrawal will indicate that a depositor should withdraw
under optimal risk sharing. If agents panic, there is a bank run and
incentives are distorted. In that equilibrium, everyone rushes in to
withdraw their deposits before the bank gives out all of its assets. The
bank must liquidate all its assets, even if not all depositors withdraw,
because liquidated assets are sold at a loss.
Illiquidity of assets provides the rationale both for the existence of
banks and for their vulnerability to runs. An important property of
our model of banks and bank runs is that runs are costly and reduce
social welfare by interrupting production (when loans are called) and
by destroying optimal risk sharing among depositors. Runs in many
banks would cause economy-wide economic problems. This is consistent with the Friedman and Schwartz (1963) observation of large costs
imposed on the U.S. economy by the bank runs in the 1930s, although
they attribute the real damage from bank runs as occurring through
the money supply.
Another contrast with our view of how bank runs do economic
damage is discussed by Fisher (1911, p. 64).2 In this view, a run occurs
because the bank's assets, which are liquid but risky, no longer cover
the nominally fixed liability (demand deposits), so depositors withdraw quickly to cut their losses. The real losses are indirect, through
2 Bryant (1980) also takes this view.

404

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

the loss of collateral caused by falling prices. In contrast, a bank run in
our model is caused by a shift in expectations, which could depend on
almost anything, consistent with the apparently irrational observed
behavior of people running on banks.
We analyze bank contracts that can prevent runs and examine their
optimality. We show that there is a feasible contract that allows banks
both to prevent runs and to provide optimal risk sharing by converting illiquid assets. The contract corresponds to suspension of convertibility of deposits (to currency), a weapon banks have historically used
against runs. Under other conditions, the best contract that banks can
offer (roughly, the suspension-of-convertibility contract) does not
achieve optimal risk sharing. However, in this more general case
there is a contract which achieves the unconstrained optimum when
government deposit insurance is available. Deposit insurance is shown
to be able to rule out runs without reducing the ability of banks to
transform assets. What is crucial is that deposit insurance frees the
asset liquidation policy from strict dependence on the volume of withdrawals. Other institutions such as the discount window ("lender of
last resort") may serve a similar function; however, we do not model
this here. The taxation authority of the government makes it a natural provider of the insurance, although there may be a competitive
fringe of private insurance.
Government deposit insurance can improve on the best allocations
that private markets provide. Most of the existing literature on deposit insurance assumes away any real service from deposit insurance,
concentrating instead on the question of pricing the insurance, taking
as given the likelihood of failure (see, e.g., Merton 1977, 1978; Kareken and Wallace 1978; Dothan and Williams 1980).
Our results have far-reaching policy implications, because they imply that the real damage from bank runs is primarily from the direct
damage occurring when recalling loans interrupts production. This
implies that much of the economic damage in the Great Depression
was caused directly by bank runs. A study by Berrianke (in press)
supports our thesis, as it shows that bank runs give a better predictor
of economic distress than money supply.
The paper proceeds as follows. In the next section, we analyze a
simple economy which shows that banks can improve the risk sharing
of simple competitive markets by transforming illiquid assets. We
show that such banks are always vulnerable to runs. In Section III, we
analyze the optimal bank contracts that prevent runs. In Section IV,
we analyze bank contracts, dropping the previous assumption that the
volume of withdrawals is deterministic. Deposit insurance is analyzed
in Section V. Section VI concludes the paper.

BANK

II.

405

RUNS

The Bank's Role in Providing Liquidity

Banks have issued demand deposits throughout their history, and
economists have long had the intuition that demand deposits are a
vehicle through which banks fulfill their role of turning illiquid assets
into liquid assets. In this role, banks can be viewed as providing insurance that allows agents to consume when they need to most. Our
simple model shows that asymmetric information lies at the root of
liquidity demand, a point not explicitly noted in the previous
literature.
The model has three periods (T = 0, 1, 2) and a single homogeneous good. The productive technology yields R > 1 units of output
in period 2 for each unit of input in period 0. If production is interrupted in period 1, the salvage value is just the initial investment.
Therefore, the productive technology is represented by
T= 0
-1

T= 1

T= 2
R
0,

where the choice between (0, R) and (1, 0) is made in period 1. (Of
course, constant returns to scale implies that a fraction can be done in
each option.)
One interpretation of the technology is that long-term capital investments are somewhat irreversible, which appears to be a reasonable characterization. The results would be reinforced (or can be
alternatively motivated) by any type of transaction cost associated with
selling a bank's assets before maturity. See Diamond (1980) for a
model of the costly monitoring of loan contracts by banks, which
implies such a cost.
All consumers are identical as of period 0. Each faces a privately
observed, uninsurable risk of being of type 1 or of type 2. In period 1,
each agent (consumer) learns his type. Type 1 agents care only about
consumption in period 1 and type 2 agents care only about consumption in period 2. In addition, all agents can privately store (or
"hoard") consumption goods at no cost. This storage is not publicly
observable. No one would store between T = 0 and T = 1, because
the productive technology does at least as well (and better if held until
T = 2). If an agent of type 2 obtains consumption goods at T = 1, he
will store them until T = 2 to consume them. Let CT represent goods
"received" (to store or consume) by an agent at period T. The privately observed consumption at T = 2 of a type 2 agent is then what
he stores from T = 1 plus what he obtains at T = 2, or cl + c2. In
terms of this publicly observed variable CT the discussion above implies

406

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

that each agent has a state-dependent utility function (with the state
private information), which we assume has the form
U(c1, c2; 0) =8u(ci)
pU(Cl + C2)

if j is of type 1 in state 0

ifj is of type 2 in state0,

where 1 ? p > R - and u: R + + -* R is twice continuously differentiable, increasing, strictly concave, and satisfies Inada conditions
u0(0) = o and u'(oo) = 0. Also, we assume that the relative riskaversion coefficient -cu"(c)/u'(c) > 1 everywhere. Agents maximize
expected utility, E[u(cl, C2; 0)], conditional on their information (if
any).
A fraction t C (0, 1) of the continuum of agents are of type 1 and,
conditional on t, each agent has an equal and independent chance of
being of type 1. Later sections will allow t to be random (in which case,
at period 1, consumers know their own type but not t), but for now we
take t to be constant.
To complete the model, we give each consumer an endowment of 1
unit in period 0 (and none at other times). We consider first the
competitive solution where agents hold the assets directly, and in each
period there is a competitive market in claims on future goods. It is
easy to show that because of the constant returns technology, prices
are determined: the period 0 price of period 1 consumption is 1, and
the period 0 and 1 prices of period 2 consumption are R- 1. This is
because agents can write only uncontingent contracts as there is no
public information on which to condition. Contracting in period T =
0, all agents (who are then identical) will establish the same trades and
each will invest his endowment in the production technology. Given
this identical position of each agent at T = 0, there will be trade in
claims on goods for consumption at T = 1 and at T = 2. Each has
access to the same technology and each can choose any positive linear
combination of cl = 1 and C2= R. Each individual's production set is
proportional to the aggregate set, and for there to be positive production of both cl and c2, the period T =1 price of c2 must be R - 1. Given
these prices, there is never any trade, and agents can do no better or
worse than if they produced only for their own consumption. Letting
C'be consumption in period k of an agent who is of type i, the agents
choose cl = 1, c1 = C2 = 0, and c2 = R, since type l's always interrupt
production but type 2's never do.
By comparison, if types were publicly observable as of period 1, it
would be possible to write optimal insurance contracts that give the ex
ante (as of period 0) optimal sharing of output between type 1 and

type 2 agents. The optimal consumption {c}k satisfies
c2*

=

cC

=

0

(Ia)

407

BANK RUNS

(those who can, delay consumption),
U'(C ) = pRu'(c2)

(lb)

(marginal utility in line with marginal productivity), and
tc1J + [(1 -

t)c2* IR] =

1

(Ic)
(the resource constraint).
By assumption, pR > 1, and since relative risk aversion always exceeds
unity, equation (1) implies that the optimal consumption levels satisfy
cl > 1 and c2 < R.3 Therefore, there is room for improvement on
the competitive outcome (cl = 1 and c2 = R). Also, note that c2 > c
by equation (Ib), since pR > 1.
The optimal insurance contract just described would allow agents
to insure against the unlucky outcome of being a type 1 agent. This
contract is not available in the simple contingent-claims market. Also,
the lack of observability of agents' types rules out a complete market
of Arrow-Debreu state-contingent claims, because this market would
require claims that depend on the nonverifiable private information.
Fortunately it is potentially possible to achieve the optimal insurance
contract, since the optimal contract satisfies the self-selection constraints.4 We argue that banks can provide this insurance: by provid3The

proof of this is as follows:
pRu'(R) < Ru'(R)

=1 u'(1) +

j

a [yu'(y)]dy

rR

u'(l) +

[u'(y) + u"(y)]dy

< u'l)

as u' > 0 and (V My)-u"(-y)-y/u'(-y)> 1. Because u'(Q)is decreasing and the resource
constraint (ic) trades off cU*against cX, the solution to (1) must have cU > 1 and c2* <
R.
4 The self-selection constraints state that no agent envies the treatment by the market
of other indistinguishable agents. In our model, agents' utilities depend on only their
consumption vectors across time and all have identical endowments. Therefore, the
self-selection constraints are satisfied if no agent envies the consumption bundle of any
other agent. This can be shown for optimal risk sharing using the properties described
after (1). Because cl* > 1 and crI = 0, type 1 agents do not envy type 2 agents.
Furthermore, because c2 + C2
C2* > C = c
+ c'*, type 2 agents do not envy type
1 agents. Because the optimal contract satisfies the self-selection constraints, there is
necessarily a contract structure which implements it as a Nash equilibrium-the ordinary demand deposit is a contract which will work. However, the optimal allocation is
not the unique Nash equilibrium under the ordinary demand deposit contract. Another inferior equilibrium is what we identify as a bank run. Our model gives a realworld example of a situation in which the distinction between implementation as a Nash
equilibrium and implementation as a unique Nash equilibrium is crucial (see also Dybvig
and Spatt, in press, and Dybvig and Jaynes 1980).

408

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

ing liquidity, banks guarantee a reasonable return when the investor
cashes in before maturity, as is required for optimal risk sharing. To
illustrate how banks provide this insurance, we first examine the traditional demand deposit contract, which is of particular interest because of its ubiquitous use by banks. Studying the demand deposit
contract in our framework also indicates why banks are susceptible to
runs.
In our model, the demand deposit contract gives each agent withdrawing in period 1 a fixed claim of r1 per unit deposited at time 0.
Withdrawal tenders are served sequentially in random order until the
bank runs out of assets. This approach allows us to capture the flavor
of continuous time (in which depositors deposit and withdraw at different random times) in a discrete model. Note that the demand
deposit contract satisfies a sequential service constraint, which specifies
that a bank's payoff to any agent can depend only on the agent's place
in line and not on future information about agents behind him in line.
We are assuming throughout this paper that the bank is mutually
owned (a "mutual") and liquidated in period 2, so that agents not
withdrawing in period 1 get a pro rata share of the bank's assets in
period 2. Let V1 be the period 1 payoff per unit deposit withdrawn
which depends on one's place in line at T = 1, and let V2 be the period
2 payoff per unit deposit not withdrawn at T = 2, which depends on
total withdrawals at T = 1. These are given by
VI(fj, ri) =

1

(2)

and
V2(f, rl) = max {R(1 - r f)/(1 - f), 0},

(3)

wherefj is the number of withdrawers' deposits serviced before agent

j as a fraction of total demand deposits; f is the total number of
demand deposits withdrawn. Let w1be the fraction of agents' deposits that he attempts to withdraw at T = 1. The consumption from
deposit proceeds, per unit of deposit of a type 1 agent, is thus given by
wjVi(fj, rl), while the total consumption, from deposit proceeds, per
unit of deposit of a type 2 agent is given by wjV1(fj, rl) + (1 - Wj)V2(f,
rl).

EquilibriumDecisions
The demand deposit contract can achieve the full-information optimal risk sharing as an equilibrium. (By equilibrium, we will always

BANK

RUNS

409

refer to pure strategy Nash equilibrium5 -and for now we will assume all agents are required to deposit initially.) This occurs when
ri = Cl', that is, when the fixed payment per dollar of deposits withdrawn at T = 1 is equal to the optimal consumption of a type 1 agent
given full information. If this contract is in place, it is an equilibrium
for type 1 agents to withdraw at T = 1 and for type 2 agents to wait,
provided this is what is anticipated. This "good" equilibrium achieves
optimal risk sharing.6
Another equilibrium (a bank run) has all agents panicking and
trying to withdraw their deposits at T = 1: if this is anticipated, all
agents will prefer to withdraw at T = 1. This is because the face value
of deposits is larger than the liquidation value of the bank's assets.
It is precisely the "transformation" of illiquid assets into liquid assets that is responsible both for the liquidity service provided by banks
and for their susceptibility to runs. For all r, > 1, runs are an equilibrium.7 If r1 = 1, a bank would not be susceptible to runs because
VI(fj, 1) < V2(f, 1) for all values of 0 fj , f; but if r1 = 1, the bank
simply mimics direct holding of the assets and is therefore no improvement on simple competitive claims markets. A demand deposit
contract which is not subject to runs provides no liquidity services.
The bank run equilibrium provides allocations that are worse for all
agents than they would have obtained without the bank (trading in
the competitive claims market). In the bank run equilibrium, everyone receives a risky return that has a mean one. Holding assets directly provides a riskless return that is at least one (and equal to R > 1
if an agent becomes a type 2). Bank runs ruin the risk sharing between agents and take a toll on the efficiency of production because
all production is interrupted at T = 1 when it is optimal for some to
continue until T = 2.
If we take the position that outcomes must match anticipations, the
inferiority of bank runs seems to rule out observed runs, since no one
would deposit anticipating a run. However, agents will choose to deposit at least some of their wealth in the bank even if they anticipate a
positive probability of a run, provided that the probability is small
enough, because the good equilibrium dominates holding assets di' This assumption rules out a mixed strategy equilibrium which is not economically
meaningful.
To verify this, substitute = t and r1 =c
into (2) and (3), noting that this leads to
VI(-) = c?1 and V2.() = c2*. Because C2* > cl , all type 2's prefer to wait until time 2 while
type l's withdraw at 1, implying that = t is an equilibrium.
' The value ri = I is the value which rules out runs and mimics the competitive
market because that is the per unit T
1 liquidating value of the technology. If that
liquidating value were 0 < 1, then ri - 0 would have this property. It has nothing
directly to do with the zero rate of interest on deposits.

410

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

rectly. This could happen if the selection between the bank run equilibrium and the good equilibrium depended on some commonly observed random variable in the economy. This could be a bad earnings
report, a commonly observed run at some other bank, a negative
government forecast, or even sunspots.8 It need not be anything fundamental about the bank's condition. The problem is that once they
have deposited, anything that causes them to anticipate a run will lead
to a run. This implies that banks with pure demand deposit contracts
will be very concerned about maintaining confidence because they
realize that the good equilibrium is very fragile.
The pure demand deposit contract is feasible, and we have seen
that it can attract deposits even if the perceived probability of a run is
positive. This explains why the contract has actually been used by
banks in spite of the danger of runs. Next, we examine a closely
related contract that can help to eliminate the problem of runs.

III.

Improving on Demand Deposits: Suspension
of Convertibility

The pure demand deposit contract has a good equilibrium that
achieves the full-information optimum when t is not stochastic. However, in its bank run equilibrium, it is worse than direct ownership of
assets. It is illuminating to begin the analysis of optimal bank contracts
by demonstrating that there is a simple variation on the demand
deposit contract which gives banks a defense against runs: suspension
of allowing withdrawal of deposits, referred to as suspension of convertibility (of deposits to cash). Our results are consistent with the
claim by Friedman and Schwartz (1963) that the newly organized
Federal Reserve Board may have made runs in the 1930s worse by
preventing banks from suspending convertibility: the total week-long
banking "holiday" that followed was more severe than any of the
previous suspensions.
If banks can suspend convertibility when withdrawals are too
numerous at T = 1, anticipation of this policy prevents runs by removing the incentive of type 2 agents to withdraw early. The following contract is identical to the pure demand deposit contract described in (2) and (3), except that it states that any agent will receive
nothing at T = 1 if he attempts to withdraw at T = 1 after a fraction
1 < rf' of all deposits have already been withdrawn-note that we
8 Analysis of this point in a general setting is given in Azariadis (1980) and Cass and
Shell (1983).

BANK

411

RUNS

redefine VI(-) and V20),

VI(fj, ri) = {;
V2(f, ri) = max

ify

(1 -Gfrl)R

4

(I

rI)R

where the expression for V2 assumes that 1 - rl > 0.
Convertibility is suspended when fj = f, and then no one else "in
line" is allowed to withdraw at T = 1. To demonstrate that this contract can achieve the optimal allocation, let r1 = c'l and choose any
fE {t, [(R - rl)/rl(R - 1)]}. Given this contract, no type 2 agent will
withdraw at T = 1 because no matter what he anticipates about
others' withdrawals, he receives higher proceeds by waiting until T =
2 to withdraw; that is, for allfandfj - If, V2() > VI(). All of the type
l's will withdraw everything at period 1 because period 2 consumption is worthless to them. Therefore, there is a unique Nash equilibrium which hasf = t. In fact, this is a dominant strategy equilibrium,
because each agent will choose his equilibrium action even if he anticipates that other agents will choose nonequilibrium or even irrational
actions. This makes this contract very "stable." This equilibrium is
essentially the good demand deposit equilibrium that achieves optimal risk sharing.
A policy of suspension of convertibility at f guarantees that it will
never be profitable to participate in a bank run because the liquidation of the bank's assets is terminated while type 2's still have an
incentive not to withdraw. This contract works perfectly only in the
case where the normal volume of withdrawals, t, is known and not
stochastic. The more general case, where t can vary, is analyzed next.
IV.

Optimal Contracts with Stochastic Withdrawals

The suspension of convertibility contract achieves optimal risk sharing when t is known ex ante because suspension never occurs in equilibrium and the bank can follow the optimal asset liquidation policy.
This is possible because the bank knows exactly how many withdrawals will occur when confidence is maintained. We now allow the fraction of type 1's to be an unobserved random variable, t. We consider a
general class of bank contracts where payments to those who withdraw at T = 1 are any function of fj and payments to those who
withdraw at T = 2 are any function of f. Analyzing this general class
will show the shortcomings of suspension of convertibility.
The full-information optimal risk sharing is the same as before,

412

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

except that in equation (1) the actual realization of t = t is used in
place of the fixed t. As no single agent has information crucial to
learning the value of t, the arguments of footnote 3 still show that
optimal risk sharing is consistent with self-selection, so there must be
some mechanism which has optimal risk sharing as a Nash equilibrium. We now explore whether banks (which are subject to the constraint of sequential service) can do this too.
From equation (1) we obtain full-information optimal consumption
levels, given the realization of i = t, of ci*(t) and c 2*(t). Recall that
= c2 (t) = 0. At the optimum, consumption is equal for all
c2(t)
agents of a given type and depends on the realization of t. This implies a unique optimal asset liquidation policy given t = t. This turns
out to imply that uninsured bank deposit contracts cannot achieve
optimal risk sharing.
1: Bank contracts (which must obey the sequential
PROPOSITION
service constraint) cannot achieve optimal risk sharing when t is stochastic and has a nondegenerate distribution.
Proposition 1 holds for all equilibria of uninsured bank contracts of
the general form V1(fj) and V2(f), where these can be any function. It
obviously remains true that uninsured pure demand deposit contracts
are subject to runs. Any run equilibrium does not achieve optimal risk
sharing, because both types of agents receive the same consumption.
Consider the good equilibrium for any feasible contract. We prove
that no bank contract can attain the full-information optimal risk
sharing. The proof is straightforward, a two-part proof by contradiction. Recall that the "place in line" /7is uniformly distributed over [0, t]
if only type 1 agents withdraw at T = 1. First, suppose that the
payments to those who withdraw at T = 1 is a nonconstant function of
fj over feasible values of t: for two possible values of t, t1 and t2, the
value of a period 1 withdrawal varies, that is, VI(tI) #&VI(t2). This
immediately implies that there is a positive probability of different
consumption levels by two type 1 agents who will withdraw at T = 1,
and this contradicts an unconstrained optimum. Second, assume the
contrary: that for all possible realizations of t = t, VI(fj) is constant for
allf E [0, t]. This implies that cl(t) is a constant independent of the
realization of t, while the budget constraint, equation (ic), shows that
2(t
c2(t)
will vary with t (unless r, = 1, which is itself inconsistent with
optimal risk sharing). Constant cl(t) and varying ct2(t)contradict optimal risk sharing, equation (lb). Thus, optimal risk sharing is inconsistent with sequential service.
Proposition 1 implies that no bank contract, including suspension
convertibility, can achieve the full-information optimum. Nonetheless, suspension can generally improve on the uninsured demand
deposit contract by preventing runs. The main problem occurs when

BANK

RUNS

413

convertibility is suspended in equilibrium, that is, when the points
where suspension occurs is less than the largest possible realization of
t. In that case, some type I agents cannot withdraw, which is inefficient ex post. This can be desirable ex ante, however, because the
threat of suspension prevents runs and allows a relatively high value
of rl. This result is consistent with contemporary views about suspension in the United States in the period before deposit insurance. Although suspensions served to short-circuit runs, they were "regarded
as anything but a satisfactory solution by those who experienced
them, which is why they produced so much strong pressure for monetary and banking reform" (Friedman and Schwartz 1963, p. 329). The
most important reform that followed was federal deposit insurance.
Its impact is analyzed in Section V.
V.

Government Deposit Insurance

Deposit insurance provided by the government allows bank contracts
that can dominate the best that can be offered without insurance and
never do worse. We need to introduce deposit insurance into the
analysis in a way that keeps the model closed and assures that no
aggregate resource constraints are violated. Deposit insurance guarantees that the promised return will be paid to all who withdraw. If
this is a guarantee of a real value, the amount that can be guaranteed
is constrained: the government must impose real taxes to honor a
deposit guarantee. If the deposit guarantee is nominal, the tax is the
(inflation) tax on nominal assets caused by money creation. (Such
taxation occurs even if no inflation results; in any case the price level
is higher than it would have been otherwise, so some nominally denominated wealth is appropriated.) Because a private insurance company is constrained by its reserves in the scale of unconditional
guarantees which it can offer, we argue that deposit insurance probably ought to be governmental for this reason. Of course, the deposit
guarantee could be made by a private organization with some authority to tax or create money to pay deposit insurance claims, although
we would usually think of such an organization as being a branch of
government. However, there can be a small competitive fringe of
commercially insured deposits, limited by the amount of private
collateral.
The government is assumed to be able to levy any tax that charges
every agent in the economy the same amount. In particular, it can tax
those agents who withdrew "early" in period T = 1, namely, those
with low values of fj. How much tax must be raised depends on how
many deposits are withdrawn at T = I and what amount r1 was
promised to them. For example, if every deposit of one dollar were

414

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

withdrawn at T = 1 (implying f = 1) and r1 = 2 were promised, a tax
of at least one per capita would need to be raised because totally
liquidating the bank's assets will raise at most one per capita at T = 1.
As the government can impose a tax on an agent after he or she has
withdrawn, the government can base its tax on f, the realized total
value of T = 1 withdrawals. This is in marked contrast to a bank,
which must provide sequential service and cannot reduce the amount
of a withdrawal after it has been made. This asymmetry allows a
potential benefit from government intervention. The realistic sequential-service constraint represents some services that a bank provides
but which we do not explicitly model. With deposit insurance we will
see that imposing this constraint does not reduce social welfare.
Agents are concerned with the after-tax value of the proceeds from
their withdrawals because that is the amount that they can consume.
A very strong result (which may be too strong) about the optimality of
deposit insurance will illuminate the more general reasons why it is
desirable. We argue in the conclusion that deposit insurance and the
Federal Reserve discount window provide nearly identical services in
the context of our model but confine current discussion to deposit
insurance.
PROPOSITION
2: Demand deposit contracts with government deposit
insurance achieve the unconstrained optimum as a unique Nash equilibrium (in fact, a dominant strategies equilibrium) if the government
imposes an optimal tax to finance the deposit insurance.
Proposition 2 follows from the ability of tax-financed deposit insurance to duplicate the optimal consumptions C (t) = cl*(t), c2(t) =
c2*(t), c(t)
c2(t) = 0 from the optimal risk sharing characterized
I0, =
in equation (1). Let the government impose a tax on all wealth held at
the beginning of period T = 1, which is payable either in goods or in
deposits. Let deposits be accepted for taxes at the pretax amount of
goods which could be obtained if withdrawn at T = 1. The amount of
tax that must be raised at T = 1 depends on the number of withdrawals then and the asset liquidation policy. Consider the proportionate
tax as a function off, v: [0, 1] -> [0, 1] given by

T

I

cIr(f)

1 - r_1

iff

i

if f >,

where I is the greatest possible realization of t.
The after-tax proceeds, per dollar of initial deposit, of a withdrawal
at T = 1 depend on f through the tax payment and are identical for

BANK

all f

415

RUNS

tf. Denote these after-tax proceeds by VI(f), given by
=

A1(f)

-

Jc*(f)

if f

l1

if f >.

t

The net payments to those who withdraw at T = 1 determine the
asset liquidation policy and the after-tax value a withdrawal at T = 2.
Any tax collected in excess of that needed to meet withdrawals at 7 =
1 is plowed back into the bank (to minimize the fraction of assets
liquidated). This implies that the after-tax proceeds, per dollar of
initial deposit, of a withdrawal at T = 2, denoted by V2(f), are given

by
| R{1 -[c=*(f)f]}

V2(f)

{

R(1
(I

iff2
iff

-R

t.

1 -of
Notice that V1(f) < V2(f) for allf E [0, 1], implying that no type 2
agents will withdraw at T = 1 no matter what they expect others to
do. For allf C [0, 1], VI(f) > 0, implying that all type 1 agents will
withdraw at T = 1. Therefore, the unique dominant strategy equilibrium is f = t, the realization of t. Evaluated at a realization t,
VI(f = t) = CI(t)
and
V2(f = t) =

tci*(t)]R
[1 - 1-t

=

and the optimum is achieved.
Proposition 2 highlights the key social benefit of government deposit insurance. It allows the bank to follow a desirable asset liquidation policy, which can be separated from the cash-flow constraint
imposed directly by withdrawals. Furthermore, it prevents runs because, for all possible anticipated withdrawal policies of other agents,
it never pays to participate in a bank run. As a result, no strategic
issues of confidence arise. This is a general result of many deposit
insurance schemes. The proposition may be too strong, as it allows the
government to follow an unconstrained tax policy. If a nonoptimal
tax must be imposed, then when t is stochastic there will be some tax
distortions and resource costs associated with government deposit
insurance. If a sufficiently perverse tax provided the revenues for
insurance, social welfare could be higher without the insurance.

416

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

Deposit insurance can be provided costlessly in the simpler case
where t is nonstochastic, for the same reason that there need not be a
suspension of convertibility in equilibrium. The deposit insurance
guarantees that type 2 agents will never participate in a run; without
runs, withdrawals are deterministic and this feature is never used. In
particular, so long as the government can impose some tax to finance
the insurance, no matter how distortionary, there will be no runs and
the distorting tax need never be imposed. This feature is shared by a
model of adoption externalities (see Dybvig and Spatt, in press) in
which a Pareto-inferior equilibrium can be averted by an insurance
policy which is costless in equilibrium. In both models, the credible
promise to provide the insurance means that the promise will not
need to be fulfilled. This is in contrast to privately provided deposit
insurance. Because insurance companies do not have the power of
taxation, they must hold reserves to make their promise credible. This
illustrates a reason why the government may have a natural advantage in providing deposit insurance. The role of government policy in
our model focuses on providing an institution to prevent a bad equilibrium rather than a policy to move an existing equilibrium. Generally, such a policy need not cause distortion.
VI.

Conclusions and Implications

The model serves as a useful framework for analyzing the economics
of banking and associated policy issues. It is interesting that the problems of runs and the differing effects of suspension of convertibility
and deposit insurance manifest themselves in a model which does not
introduce currency or risky technology. This demonstrates that many
of the important problems in banking are not necessarily related to
those factors, although a general model will require their introduction.
We analyze an economy with a single bank. The interpretation is
that it represents the financial intermediary industry, and withdrawals represent net withdrawals from the system. If many banks were
introduced into the model, then there would be a role for liquidity
risk sharing between banks, and phenomena such as the Federal
Funds market or the impact of "bank-specific risk" on deposit insurance could be analyzed.
The result that deposit insurance dominates contracts which the
bank alone can enforce shows that there is a potential benefit from
government intervention into banking markets. In contrast to common tax and subsidy schemes, the intervention we are recommending
provides an institutional framework under which banks can operate
smoothly, much as enforcement of contracts does more generally.

BANK

RUNS

417

The riskless technology used in the model isolates the rationale for
deposit insurance, but in addition it abstracts from the choice of bank
loan portfolio risk. If the risk of bank portfolios could be selected by a
bank manager, unobserved by outsiders (to some extent), then a
moral hazard problem would exist. In this case there is a trade-off
between optimal risk sharing and proper incentives for portfolio
choice, and introducing deposit insurance can influence the portfolio
choice. The moral hazard problem has been analyzed in complete
market settings where deposit insurance is redundant and can provide no social improvement (see Kareken and Wallace 1978; Dothan
and Williams 1980), but of course in this case there is no trade-off.
Introducing risky assets and moral hazard would be an interesting
extension of our model. It appears likely that some form of government deposit insurance could again be desirable but that it would be
accompanied by some sort of bank regulation. Such bank regulation
would serve a function similar to restrictive covenants in bond indentures. Interesting but hard to model are questions of regulator "discretion" which then arise.
The Federal Reserve discount window can, as a lender of last resort, provide a service similar to deposit insurance. It would buy bank
assets with (money creation) tax revenues at T = 1 for prices greater
than their liquidating value. If the taxes and transfers were set to be
identical to that of the optimal deposit insurance, it would have the
same effect. The identity of deposit insurance and discount window
services occurs because the technology is riskless.
If the technology is risky, the lender of last resort can no longer be
as credible as deposit insurance. If the lender of last resort were always
required to bail out banks with liquidity problems, there would be
perverse incentives for banks to take on risk, even if bailouts occurred
only when many banks fail together. For instance, if a bailout is anticipated, all banks have an incentive to take on interest rate risk by
mismatching maturities of assets and liabilities, because they will all be
bailed out together.
If the lender of last resort is not required to bail out banks unconditionally, a bank run can occur in response to changes in depositor
expectations about the bank's credit worthiness. A run can even occur
in response to expectations about the general willingness of the
lender of last resort to rescue failing banks, as illustrated by the unfortunate experience of the 1930s when the Federal Reserve misused its
discretion and did not allow much discounting. In contrast, deposit
insurance is a binding commitment which can be structured to retain
punishment of the bank's owners, board of directors, and officers in
the case of a failure.
The potential for multiple equilibria when a firm's liabilities are

418

JOURNAL

OF POLITICAL

ECONOMY

more liquid than its assets applies more generally, not simply to
banks. Consider a firm with illiquid technology which issues very
short-term bonds as a large part of its capital structure. Suppose one
lender expects all other lenders to refuse to roll over their loans to the
firm. Then, it may be his best response to refuse to roll over his loans
even if the firm would be solvent if all loans were rolled over. Such
liquidity crises are similar to bank runs. The protection from creditors
provided by the bankruptcy laws serves a function similar to the suspension of convertibility. The firm which is viable but illiquid is
guaranteed survival. This suggests that the "transformation" could be
carried out directly by firms rather than by financial intermediaries.
Our focus on intermediaries is supported by the fact that banks directly hold a substantial fraction of the short-term debt of corporations. Also, there is frequently a requirement (or custom) that a firm
issuing short-term commercial paper obtain a bank line of credit
sufficient to pay off the issue if it cannot "roll it over." A bank with
deposit insurance can provide "liquidity insurance" to a firm, which
can prevent a liquidity crisis for a firm with short-term debt and limit
the firm's need to use bankruptcy to stop such crises. This suggests
that most of the aggregate liquidity risk in the U.S. economy is channeled through its insured financial intermediaries, to the extent that
lines of credit represent binding commitments.
We hope that this model will prove to be useful in understanding
issues in banking and corporate finance.
References
Azariadis, Costas. "Self-fulfilling Prophecies." J. Econ. Theory 25 (December
1980): 380-96.
Bernanke, Ben. "Nonmonetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression." A.E.R. (in press).
Bryant, John. "A Model of Reserves, Bank Runs, and Deposit Insurance."J.
Banking and Finance 4 (1980): 335-44.
Cass, David, and Shell, Karl. "Do Sunspots Matter?"J.P.E. 91 (April 1983):
193-227.
Diamond, Douglas W. "Financial Intermediation and Delegated Monitoring."
Working Paper, Graduate School Bus., Univ. Chicago, 1980.
Dothan, U., and Williams, J. "Banks, Bankruptcy and Public Regulations."J.
Banking and Finance 4 (March 1980): 65-87.
Dybvig, Philip H., and Jaynes, G. "Microfoundations of Wage Rigidity."
Working Paper, Yale Univ., 1980.
Dybvig, Philip H., and Spatt, Chester S. "Adoption Externalities as Public
Goods."J. Public Econ. (in press).
Fisher, Irving. The Purchasing Power of Money: Its Determinationand Relation to
Credit,Interest and Crises. New York: Macmillan, 1911.
Friedman, Milton, and Schwartz, Anna J. A Monetary History of the United
States, 1867-1960. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton Univ. Press (for Nat. Bur.
Econ. Res.), 1963.

BANK

RUNS

419

Kareken, John H., and Wallace, Neil. "Deposit Insurance and Bank Regulation: A Partial-Equilibrium Exposition."J. Bus. 51 (July 1978): 413-38.
Merton, Robert C. "An Analytic Derivation of the Cost of Deposit Insurance
and Loan Guarantees: An Application of Modern Option Pricing Theory."
J. Banking and Finance 1 (June 1977): 3-11.
. "On the Cost of Deposit Insurance When There Are Surveillance
Costs."J. Bus. 51 (July 1978): 439-52.
Niehans, Jurg. The Theoryof Money. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Univ. Press,
1978.
Patinkin, Don. Money, Interest, and Prices: An Integration of Monetaryand Value
Theory.2d ed. New York: Harper & Row, 1965.
Tobin, James. "The Theory of Portfolio Selection." In The Theoryof Interest
Rates, edited by Frank H. Hahn and F. P. R. Brechling. London: Macmillan, 1965.

