American Economic Association
Cheap Talk
Author(s): Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin
Source: The Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 10, No. 3 (Summer, 1996), pp. 103-118
Published by: American Economic Association
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2138522
Accessed: 11-03-2016 14:40 UTC

Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at http://www.jstor.org/page/
info/about/policies/terms.jsp
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content
in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and facilitate new forms of scholarship.
For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.

American Economic Association is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to The Journal of
Economic Perspectives.

http://www.jstor.org

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Journal of Economic Perspectives-Volume 10, Number 3-Summer 1996-Pages 103-118

Cheap Talk

Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin

"Simply by making noises with our mouths, we can reliably cause precise new combinations

of ideas to arise in each other's minds."

-Steven Pinker, The Language Instinct (1994), p. 1

'A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on."

-attributed to Yogi Berra

"Your grandmother was making noises like she was going into town."

-Emily Ann Cramer, circa 1965, verbal communication toJ. F.

'Won't that kid ever shut up?"

-W. R., circa 1965, verbal communication to A. R.

M z r uch of modern microeconomics asks how private information is shared

through market and other mechanisms. Hayek (1945), in a classic essay,

even identified information sharing as the chief efficiency of competitive

markets. Subsequent work by Hurwicz (1973) and others has pursued Hayek's in-

tuitions and evaluated economic institutions in terms of their effects on information

* Joseph Farrell is Professor of Economics, University of California, Berkeley, California. He

is also serving as ChiefEconomist at the Federal Communications Commission, Washington,

D. C., where he is trying to make talk as cheap as possible; however, his utterances should not

be interpreted as the views of the Commission or of any Commissioner. Matthew Rabin is

Assistant Professor of Economics, University of California, Berkeley, California. Their e-mail

addresses arefarrell@econ.berkeley.edu and rabin@econ. berkeley. edu, respectively.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

104 Journal of Economic Perspectives

transmission. On a smaller scale of analysis, game theorists and economists have

found many instances of "signaling," as discussed by Spence (1974), where an

informed agent takes costly actions that (according to a somewhat complex but

inexorable logic) reveal the agent's information or "type." Yet, we suspect, most

information sharing is not done through Spence-style signaling, through the price

system, nor through carefully crafted Hurwicz-style incentive-compatible mecha-

nisms: it is done through ordinary, informal talk.

How much can such "cheap talk" accomplish? Economists are inconsistent

about this question. Some scathingly ask, when talk is cheap (meaning that it does

not directly affect payoffs), what incentive is there to tell the truth? Others assume

that "communication" will lead players to Nash equilibria: indeed, to equilibria

that are Pareto-efficient within the set of equilibria. Both of these extreme views,

we think, are wrong.

The scathing view, we believe, is a verbal confusion: talk is cheap (it does not

directly affect payoffs), but, given that people respond to it, talk definitely affects

payoffs. A misinformed listener will do something that is not optimal for himself

and, if their interests are sufficiently aligned, this is bad for the speaker too. In a

nutshell, this is how cheap talk can be informative in games, even if players ruth-

lessly lie when it suits them.'

Consider an example. The Rayco Corporation wants to hire Sally in one of two

positions. One position demands high ability; the other is better done by someone

of low ability (an able person will get bored and perform badly). Rayco does not

know Sally's ability (which may be either "high" or "low"); it begins with 50-50

beliefs. Sally knows her own ability.

Rayco wants to give Sally the demanding job if she has high ability and the

undemanding job if she has low ability. For this example, we suppose that if Sally

has high ability she will enjoy the demanding job and will find the undemanding

job boring, whereas if she has low ability she will be stressed out by the demanding

job and find the undemanding job manageable. We can represent the situation as

Example 1:

Job Rayco gives Sally

Demanding Undemanding

High 2,1 0,0

Sally's ability

Low 0,0 1,3

'Valley, Thompson, Gibbons and Bazerman (1995) found that, in bargaining with cheap talk, experi-

mental subjects outperformed the Myerson-Satterthwaite theoretical upper bound on gains from trade

with private information. We interpret this, as well as the fact that people typically say what they want to

have been believed even when the incentives clearly imply that cheap talk should not be believed, as

suggesting that some people tell the truth despite incentives to lie.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin 105

There are four possible outcomes, corresponding to Sally's ability (high or low)

and Rayco's choice of job offer (demanding or undemanding). In each cell, we

write Sally's payoff and then Rayco's. Formally, this is an incomplete-information

game, where Sally can be one of two "types" and where only Rayco has a (payoff-

relevant) move.

Readers steeped in the signaling literature may already be thinking about how

a high-ability Sally can engage in costly education beyond what a low-ability Sally

would be willing to imitate . . . but this is a red herring. Costly signaling is surely

important in economics (though we hope education is nobler than that), but in

this example there is no need for it. Sally will just tell Rayco her ability, and Rayco

will believe her: she has no reason to lie. This private-information problem is re-

solved through cheap talk.

In this paper we try to convey, without too much in the way of notation or

theorems, a broader sense of when cheap talk can communicate private informa-

tion in equilibrium, and of whether those equilibria or others are likely to arise.

We argue that cheap talk can and often does matter, but it does not generally lead

to efficiency.

Cheap Talk About Private Information

To formalize our intuitive claim about what will happen in Example 1, we view

it as a two-stage game. In the first stage, Sally can say something to Rayco; in the

second stage, Rayco decides which job to give her. Because "say something" rep-

resents a choice from a large set of actions (all reasonably short utterances in Eng-

lish, for a start), this game is very large. Although we learn a lot from a simplified

version in which we actively consider only the possible messages "My ability is high"

and "My ability is low," we should be aware that Sally could say other things.

In this two-stage game, the following strategies constitute an equilibrium.2 Sally

says "my ability is high" if her ability is high and "my ability is low" if her ability is

low. Rayco infers that Sally's ability is high, and gives her the demanding job, if she

says "my ability is high"; it infers that her ability is low, and gives her the unde-

manding job, if she says "my ability is low." If Rayco responds to her cheap talk in

this way, Sally has no incentive to lie, because that would induce Rayco to make a

mistake, and in this example a mistake for Rayco is bad for Sally.

A useful (if stilted) alternative way to say this is that Sally has preferences over

Rayco's beliefs about her ability, because Rayco relies on those beliefs when it does

something-assign her to ajob-that she cares about. Each of Sally's possible types

2 To be precise, they constitute a perfect Bayesian equilibrium, which is the commonly used solution

concept for multistage games with private information. "Sequential equilibrium" (Kreps and Wilson,

1982) is often equivalent, including here. These equilibrium concepts are in effect generalizations of

subgame-perfect equilibrium to games with private information: see, for instance, Gibbons (1992) for

details.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

106 Journal of Economic Perspectives

(high ability and low ability) is "self-signaling": that is, she wants Rayco to think

she has high ability if and only if she has, and similarly for low ability. Knowing this,

Rayco is happy to use a strategy that effectively delegates its action to Sally, by

making its job assignment depend on her cheap talk. In this example, there are no

incentive problems and cheap talk can convey all the information.

Unfortunately, things are not always so nice. Consider next a modified prob-

lem, reminiscent of those discussed by Spence (1974). Here, Rayco still wants to

put Sally in the demanding job if her ability is high and in the undemanding job

if her ability is low; but now, perhaps because performance is hard to monitor and

the demanding job is better paid, Sally wants the demanding job whatever her true

ability. The bimatrix for Example 2 is:

Job Rayco gives Sally

Demanding Undemanding

High 2,1 0,0

Sally's ability

Low 2,0 1,3

Sally's preferences over Rayco's beliefs are no longer correlated with the truth:

instead, whatever the truth, she wants Rayco to think she has high ability. Neither

type, therefore, is self-signaling: high ability is not because a low-ability Sally would

also claim to have high ability, and low ability is not because a low-ability Sally does

not want to be known as such. Because of this lack of self-signaling or lack of

correlation, cheap talk cannot now convey Sally's private information about her

ability level; either no information will be conveyed, or Sally will engage in costly

signaling.

In the two examples given thus far, correlation between the "sender's" (Sal-

ly's) true type and her preference over the "receiver's" (Rayco's) beliefs either is

perfect or fails completely.3 We now describe, in Example 3, a more complicated

setting with some correlation but also some conflict. This is a variant of a classic

model developed by Crawford and Sobel (1982).

Now, Sally's ability lies on a continuum, rather than being just "high" or

"low." Based on Rayco's beliefs about her ability, it will set her wage and make

workplace demands on her: if it believes she has higher ability, it will demand more

and will pay more. Sally knows her ability level, but Rayco only has its initial beliefs

and what Sally says.

Because she likes money, Sally may well want to persuade Rayco that her ability

is somewhat higher than it actually is. Extreme exaggeration may not be tempting,

3The correlation may fail even more dramatically-though with no more devastating results-if Sally's

preference over Rayco's belief is negatively related to the truth. For example, suppose that high-ability

types like to goof off in the undemanding job, but low-ability types like the higher salary associated with

the demanding job.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Cheap Talk 107

however: even at a high salary, Sally does not want to talk herself into a demanding

job she cannot handle. Depending on the details of the problem, it may turn out

that if her true ability is t, she would most like Rayco to believe that her ability is

t + b, where b is a positive parameter that is known to both players.

Can cheap talk be credible in such a problem? It's tempting to think not,

because if Rayco "discounts" Sally's claimed ability by some amount, c, then Sally

can just claim her ability is t + b + c, and thus fool Rayco. The flaw in this argument

is the assumption that if cheap talk is meaningful, it must convey a precise meaning.

If, instead, Rayco always believes one of a limited set of things about Sally's ability,

then she might find that the only available exaggerations are too large to be tempt-

ing. Crawford and Sobel (1982) showed how, in such a model, imprecise cheap talk

can indeed be an equilibrium, provided that Sally does not want to exaggerate too

much (b is not too large). Larger values of b force cheap talk to take on less precise

meaning: the maximum amount of communication, in some sense, depends on the

extent to which the parties' interests are aligned.

These three examples suggest some general principles. Sometimes there is no

incentive to lie, and cheap talk will fully convey private information. If there is too

strong an incentive to lie, cheap talk becomes meaningless. However, even if there

is some limited incentive to lie, cheap talk can convey some meaning in equilibrium.

As these principles suggest, cheap talk matters in a variety of mixed-motive

economic interactions involving private information. For instance, Farrell and Gib-

bons (1989) and Matthews and Postlewaite (1989) show that cheap talk can matter

in bargaining; Austen-Smith (1990,1993) and Matthews (1989), among others, have

shown how cheap talk matters in political contexts; and there is a growing literature

of similar applications elucidating how limited common interest may lead to mean-

ingful cheap talk.

If Cheap Talk Can Matter, Does It?

We have argued that cheap talk can convey information, and, following the

usual game-theoretic approach, we backed up that claim by displaying an equilib-

rium in which it does. We did not claim that the equilibrium was unique; indeed,

it is not. In any game, however "obvious" it may be that cheap talk will convey

information, game theorists traditionally argue that it need not. It is consistent with

common knowledge of rationality, and with equilibrium, for cheap talk to be com-

pletely ignored. This section addressed this uncomfortable state of affairs.

In Example 1, it was a natural equilibrium for Sally to describe her ability as

"high" or "low," and for Rayco to give her the corresponding job.4 It is also an

equilibrium for her to say "swordfish" if her ability is high and "sauerkraut" if her

' Again, the idea of equilibrium should be understood in a technical sense as a perfect Bayesian equilib-

rium. See note 2.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

108 Journal of Economic Perspectives

ability is low-as long as Rayco understands this language. It is even an equilibrium

for Sally to say "my ability is low" if her ability is high, and "my ability is high" if

her ability is low, as long as Rayco gives her the more demanding job when she

claims low ability, and the less demanding job when she claims higher ability.5

Obviously, zillions of these equilibria exist: they differ in the assignment of messages

to meanings-that is, in the language they use-but the differences are "inessen-

tial": in each, Sally ends up in the right job through cheap talk.

But there is another, essentially different, equilibrium. In this equilibrium,

Rayco's 50-50 beliefs are unaffected by what Sally says. Given that Rayco ignores

Sally's utterances, she might as well "babble"-that is, make noises that are un-

correlated with her type. In turn, her babbling justifies Rayco's strategy of ignoring

cheap talk (and thus always assigning the undemanding job, which is its best move

in expected value given its 50-50 prior). The point is quite general: it is always

consistent with rationality to treat cheap talk as meaningless.

Such a "babbling" equilibrium always exists.' Since there is no intrinsic reason

why Sally's noises would be correlated at all (let alone in any particular way) with

her private information, one might think that the most natural, focal, or symmetry-

preserving approach is to suppose that there is no such correlation and to ignore

cheap talk-implementing the babbling equilibrium. If we didn't know better, we

might think that this was the most reasonable outcome.

But we do know better. People don't usually take the destructively agnostic

attitude that "I won't presume that the words mean what they have always meant."

Rather, people take the usual or literal meaning seriously. This doesn't mean they

believe whatever they hear; rather, they use the usual meaning as a starting point

and then assess credibility, which involves asking questions such as, "Why would

she want me to think that?"7

No such skeptical respect for language appears in the babbling equilibrium in

Example 1. Instead, language such as "my ability is high" is gratuitously treated as

meaningless-meaningless not because incentive problems imply that cheap talk

cannot be credible in equilibrium, as in Example 2, but just because all talk is

treated as babbling in the equilibrium! In this sense, the babbling equilibrium is

absurd. When players share a language, they will not behave like that in Example 1.

Using confident introspection-with which we believe almost everyone would

agree on reflection-we have disparaged one equilibrium in that example and favor

'The modern Greek for "yes" is "ne" and for "no" is "okeh," so an American visitor to Greece

sometimes feels as if this experiment is being performed.

6Seidman (1992) gave an example of a game without a cheap-talk stage that has no sequential equilib-

rium, but in which, if a cheap-talk stage is added, there is a unique equilibrium, which involves mean-

ingful communication. We believe (for different reasons) that this result does not contradict our key

point.

7People in reality do not seem to lie as much, or question each other's statements as much, as game

theory suggests they should. For the purposes of this work, we'll model ruthless economic Sally who tells

the truth only whenever she finds it pays, and we'll suppose that Rayco expects that.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin 109

another one.8 How can we extend this to cheap-talk games in general as a "refine-

ment" of equilibrium-that is, a rule for picking out some equilibria that are more

plausible than others?9 Our predictions in Examples 1 and 2 might suggest one

possible refinement: that cheap talk will communicate as much as is consistent with

avoiding incentives to lie. But this would not capture the reasoning behind our

intuitions in those examples, and in general it gives different and, we think, wrong

results.

To illustrate, consider Example 4, the right-to-silence game. Sally knows which

one of two tasks is efficient to perform. Rayco could hire Sally specifically to perform

Job 1, specifically to perform Job 2, or as a highly paid manager who will choose

which job to perform. If Rayco knew which task is efficient, it would still hire her

to perform the task, but at a lower salary, because she has lost her informational

advantage. Sally wants to be hired as manager, but prefers to be hired to do the

right task and be more productive rather than to do the wrong task and be less

productive. The payoffs to Example 4 are:

Jobl Job2 Manager

Task 1 efficient 2,5 1,-2 3,3

Sally's knowledge

Task 2 efficient 1,-2 2,5 3,3

Just as in Example 1, there are two essentially different equilibria: there is (as always)

the uninformative "babbling" equilibrium, and there is a fully revealing equilib-

rium, where Sally reveals what is efficient before being hired. In contrast to Example

1, we will argue that the revealing equilibrium is implausible here.

In the revealing equilibrium, why doesn't Sally deviate and refuse to reveal her

private information? The only possible answer is that refusing to reveal her infor-

mation is not an option given that Rayco takes every possible message as meaning

either thatJob 1 is efficient or thatJob 2 is. Even if Sally makes such sounds as "I

refuse to tell you what's efficient before you hire me as manager," or "Notice that

my refusal to reveal which task is efficient signals nothing, since whatever my private

8 To some extent, recent experiments test and, we think, broadly confirm our arguments. Crawford

(1995) provides an excellent brief review of experiments on cheap talk. So far as we are aware, the only

careful experiment on the role of a common language in revealing private information is Sopher and

Zapater (1993), who provide mixed support for the types of restrictions implied by Rabin (1990). More

common are experiments on preplay communication regarding intentions (see below). Cooper, Dejong,

Forsythe and Ross (1989, 1994), for instance, provide support for Farrell's (1987) notion of communi-

cation increasing coordination in the batfie of the sexes-as well as the hypothesis that more rounds of

talk will yield more coordination than one round.

' Some readers may be confused at the statement that the "equilibrium"-often in economics a term

for what we believe will happen-is not plausible. Indeed, researchers in game theory sometimes write

things like "the perfect Bayesian equilibrium is not really an equilibrium." Just to clarify: to say that a

set of strategies constitutes a perfect Bayesian equilibrium means that they satisfy certain technical con-

ditions; in many contexts that makes the perfect Bayesian equilibrium a reasonable outcome, but (as

here) it does not always do so.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

110 Journal of Economic Perspectives

information is, I prefer that you not know it," or "la di dah," Rayco must (for the

equilibrium to work) infer either "ah, she's revealing that Job 1 is efficient," or

"ah, she's revealing thatJob 2 is efficient." Otherwise, Sally would indeed say some

such thing, so revealing would not be equilibrium. This is entirely consistent in the

weird world of this equilibrium, but ludicrous from a broader viewpoint. In other

words, the stability of the revealing equilibrium here depends on interpreting cer-

tain messages in ways that, while logically consistent and not inviting deception, are

weird. 10

Another way to say this is that the revealing equilibrium in this game can only

happen if the players use a language that contains ways to say 'Job 1" and 'Job 2"

but no way to say "no comment." If, in fact, they share a rich language such as

English, then the "implausible equilibria" can survive only if language is gratuitously

misunderstood. For the revealing equilibrium in Example 4, Rayco has to misunder-

stand "I won't tell you"; for the babbling equilibrium in Example 1, Rayco has to

misunderstand "I have high ability." Contrary to what these equilibria specify, we

think that in reality Sally surely can make such messages understood; and, once un-

derstood, they will be believed, for she has no incentive to lie about them.

The view that cheap talk may be blocked by incredulity (as in Example 2) but

not by incomprehension has been called the "rich-language assumption," because

it really assumes that players share a pre-existing rich common language in which

a desired message can be expressed and understood. In the context of simple

"sender-receiver" games such as Examples 1 to 4, where Sally sends a cheap-talk

message and Rayco receives it, Farrell (1993) pursues the rich-language assumption

and its implications. The approach generalizes our discussion of Examples 1, 2

and 4.11

Talking About Intentions

Often when people talk (and listen), the topic is not exogenous private infor-

mation, as above, but rather what we plan to do. Cheap talk is used to coordinate,

as when we agree on where to meet for dinner. The same problems arise as in

talking about private information, but with some added issues.

Consider Example 5: pure coordination. Susan and Roberto work at the same

office building in a small town and are both going to eat out tonight. They want to

eat together. There are four eateries in town; three are of equal quality, but the

"' We describe these interpretations as "weird," but some readers might ask whether they are not natural

if Rayco can commit itself to, for example, hiring Sally forJob 1 unless she announces that she'd prefer

Job 2. We agree that Rayco would like to make such a commitment and may try to do so, but in a one-

shot setting without commitment, ex post, it will not be a best response after one of the "I won't tell

you" messages.

" While we believe this approach is broadly correct, the exact way to implement these intuitions is more

problematic. Modifications of Farrell's "neologism-proofness" have been proposed by Rabin (1990),

Matthews, Okuno-Fujiwara and Postlewaite (1991), and others.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Cheap Talk 111

fourth-down by the town's (sole) railroad station, Grand Empire Station-is of

lower quality. The game can be represented as follows, where the choice for each

player is where to dine, and in each cell we show (in the conventional game-theory

fashion) Susan's payoff followed by Roberto's:

Roberto

Eatery: 1 2 3 Empire

Eatery 1 3,3 0,0 0,0 0,-2

Eatery 2 0,0 3,3 0,0 0,-2

Susan

Eatery 3 0,0 0,0 3,3 0,-2

Empire -2,0 -2,0 -2,0 1,1

Susan and Roberto are leaving from the same parking garage, using separate cars

parked next to each other. What will happen? Intuitively, like Sally and Rayco in

Example 1, they surely will talk and thus solve their problem: they will eat together

at one of the good restaurants. How does this work?

Susan can say, "I'm off to Eatery 2." As in the analysis of cheap talk about

private information, one could take a destructively agnostic attitude and note that

there is a "babbling" equilibrium in which this statement means nothing. But peo-

ple who think like that tend to eat alone. Empirically, it makes more sense to rec-

ognize that Roberto knows the literal meaning of Susan's remark, and he will eval-

uate it to see whether it is credible; if it is, he will believe it.

How does Roberto evaluate the credibility of such a remark? If Susan's desti-

nation were exogenous private information, like Sally's ability, then Roberto would

ask two questions. First, if Susan is really going to Eatery 2, would she want me to

believe she is? Here, she would. Second, if Susan is really going somewhere else,

might she want me to believe she's going to Eatery 2? Here, she would not. So the

message "I'm off to Eatery 2" is self-signaling: Susan wants to say it if and only if it

is true.

Roberto should also ask a third question, which has no analogy in talking about

exogenous private information. If Susan thought she had persuaded him that she's

going to Eatery 2, would she have an incentive to go to Eatery 2? This test, too, is

passed here: if she thinks he believes she is going to Eatery 2, she expects him to

go there, and so she wants to go there. We can describe this by saying the message

"I'm going to Eatery 2" is self-committing: if believed, it creates incentives for the

speaker to fulfill it.'2

2 This is the same as saying that Susan's going to Eatery 2, along with Roberto's best response (here,

going to Eatery 2), constitute a Nash equilibrium in the game without cheap talk. We introduce the term

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

112 Journal of Economic Perspectives

A message that is both self-signaling and self-committing seems highly credible.

Accordingly, provided there is no problem of making her messages understood,

Susan can ensure a payoff of 3 by using this remark (or, similarly, by naming another

of the good places), or a payoff of 1 by naming the Grand Empire Diner; or she

can refrain from saying anything and take her chances. Since taking her chances

cannot get her more than 3, and can easily do worse, it seems clear that she will

name one of the good places. Formally, if it is common knowledge that self-

signaling, self-committing messages are believed, then in every subgame-perfect

equilibrium each player gets a payoff of 3. Cheap talk efficiently resolves this co-

ordination problem.

Cheap Talk versus Convention

A popular alternative to talk in resolving coordination problems is convention.

Many informal introductions to game theory stress Schelling's (1960) examples of

how focal points develop and help people to coordinate. In one famous example,

Schelling discussed (theoretically and experimentally) the problem facing people

who had planned to meet in New York but forgotten to say where. The leading

focal point at the time was Grand Central Station.

Although Schelling's work remains fascinating half a life span later, we find

this emphasis on tacit coordination surprising, because we think that people in

small-numbers coordination problems usually can and will talk. Moreover, in pure

coordination games, cheap talk yields more efficient coordination than do

Schelling-style focal points. In Example 5, suppose that the eatery at Grand Empire

Station is a natural focal point for people who have agreed to meet but have for-

gotten to say where. Susan and Roberto, having grown up in this town, may both

know that is where they should meet. This will be better than not coordinating, but

worse than what they can get by speaking. More generally, pre-existing focal points

are seldom optimal, because they are not tailored to the situation at hand. How

convenient will Schelling's New York visitors find it to go to Grand Central Station

at noon? Cheap talk is an excellent solution to such problems, and situations where

people cannot talk are the exception, not the rule.'3

Coordination Under Conflict

What can talk achieve in more challenging problems, where players' interests

are not well aligned? Because of conflict, messages are less likely to be self-signaling

or self-committing, and cheap talk will be less successful or less informative. An

extreme example is Example 6, the prisoner's dilemma, which we present as the

choice of high or low effort in a joint enterprise:

"self-committing" because we want to stress that this is a two-stage process in which talk not only reveals

information but also itself changes the speaker's incentives (through changing what she expects the

listener to do).

13 But this does provide one reason to work toward cheap wireless telephony.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin 113

Roberto

high effort low effort

high effort 7,7 5,8

Susan

low effort 8,5 6,6

Each player reasons that whether the other player uses high effort or low effort,

her/his own selfishly best response is low effort. But this leads to the outcome

(6, 6), which is Pareto-dominated by the outcome (7, 7), where both players offer

high effort. Can Susan and Roberto talk their way out of this? Clearly not. To do

so, they would have to coordinate on high effort. But suppose Susan says, "I will

put in high effort; I expect you to do the same." This message is not self-signaling

(Susan would like Roberto to put in high effort whatever she plans to do), and it

is not self-committing (Susan will have no incentive to follow through on her prom-

ise, whether or not she expects Roberto to believe her); moreover, even if Roberto

believes Susan plans to put in high effort, he will have no incentive to do so. What-

ever they say, "low effort" remains a strictly dominant strategy.'4 As this example

suggests, credible messages must be self-committing.

On the other hand, self-committing (Nash equilibrium) messages need not be

entirely credible, as Example 7 suggests (Aumann, 1990). Each of two hunters must

decide what to hunt one morning. If both hunt stag, both do very well; if both hunt

rabbits, both do OK; but if Artemis alone hunts stag while Calliope hunts rabbits,

Artemis will fail and Calliope will have no competition in catching rabbits. The

payoffs can be represented as:

Calliope

Stag Rabbits

Stag 9,9 0,8

Artemis

Rabbits 8,0 7,7

Artemis would like to persuade Calliope that she will hunt stag. It is a Nash equi-

librium for them both to do so, so the message "I plan to hunt stag" is self-

committing: if Artemis thinks Calliope believes it, she will indeed hunt stag. But, as

14 So why do so many authors introducing the prisoners' dilemma stress that the "prisoners" are held

in separate cells and cannot talk to each other? First, real prisoners might be able to change the game-

Susan might say to Roberto "if you fink on me, I'll kill you" and perhaps be believed. Second, empirical

studies suggest that the prisoners' dilemma, played for moderate stakes, is really a coordination game!

That is, people behave as if psychological payoffs from "both cooperating" make each player want to

cooperate if the other does, and not otherwise. See Rabin (1993) for discussion of reciprocity in games

and Sally (1994) for a review of how communication affects play in games like this.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

114 Journal of Economic Perspectives

Aumann stresses, the message is not self-signaling: Artemis would like Calliope to

believe it even if Artemis in fact plans to hunt rabbit. Aumann argues that this

makes the message incredible (and therefore that cheap talk does nothing this

game, and in particular will not lead the players to the "good" stag-hunting Nash

equilibrium); although we see the force of Aumann's argument, we suspect that

cheap talk will do a good deal to bring Artemis and Calliope to the stag hunt.

In another application of the same idea, consider an aspect of the theory of

collusion. Suppose two duopolists are engaged in repeated Cournot competition.

They have, let's suppose, been playing myopically, producing the Cournot equilib-

rium output each period. Now one duopolist says to the other, "You cut your out-

put, and I'll cut mine." Will this cheap talk make collusion more likely?

Let's interpret the talk as suggesting that they both go to trigger strategies-

where each firm restricts its output to half the monopoly output unless one of them

has previously "cheated" by producing more, in which case they revert to myopic

Cournot play. As is well known, if there is not too much discounting, these trigger

strategies constitute an equilibrium in which the firms split monopoly profits. As it

is an equilibrium, it is self-committing: a best response to the trigger strategy is the

trigger strategy. But the proposal is not self-signaling: duopolist A would like its

rival B to adopt this trigger strategy even if A has no intention of doing so! After

all, having duopolist B restrict output for one period helps A earn higher profits in

that period, even though B will then revert to myopic Cournot behavior. Just as in

Aumann's stag hunt example, each player wants the other to play for the (privately)

Pareto-superior equilibrium, even if he himself does not plan to do it.'5

If cheap-talk invitations to collude are not self-signaling, are they ineffectual

and socially harmless? Not necessarily: antitrust law does not approve of competitors

engaging in cheap talk about pricing, and experimental evidence, as well as com-

mon sense, generally supports this position (Holt, 1995, pp. 409-411; Carlton and

Perloff, 1994, ch. 7). We cannot be confident that cheap talk won't help players

reach a privately Pareto-superior equilibrium even if such talk is not self-signaling.

Conflict in Talk

So far we have considered what happens when just one player talks and the

other assesses the credibility of the message. This focuses the discussion on whether

messages are credible, which is a major determinant of how much information will

be shared by cheap talk. Yet often it is important that more than one player can

talk. For instance, consider Example 8: the battle of the sexes. As the classic story

is retold by Gibbons (1992):

A man and a woman are trying to decide on an evening's entertainment; we

analyze a gender-neutral version of the game. While at separate workplaces,

15 Invitations to collude would be self-signaling if the punishment phase were sufficiently worse for the

"defector" than never having left simple noncooperative play; this may be the case in practice.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Cheap Talk 115

Pat and Chris must choose to attend either the opera or a prize fight. Both

players would rather spend the evening together than apart, but Pat would

rather they be together at the prize fight, while Chris would rather they be

together at the opera.

We represent these preferences in a conventional game-theory bimatrix:

Chris

Opera Fight

Opera 2,1 0,0

Pat

Fight 0,0 1,2

While this is usually analyzed as a simple simultaneous-move game, we suggest that

this assumes the couple is rather odd. Normal couples, in a situation like this, talk

and try to agree on where to go. Although one can forcibly assume that cheap talk

is impossible (they must decide right away, are at separate workplaces and can't

phone), doing so strips the game of most of what happens in most strategic inter-

actions whose eventual payoffs look like this. Thus, while the (directly) payoff-

relevant moves in the battle of the sexes can be represented as this bimatrix, the

strategic interaction consists of a negotiation: in other words, this game is preceded

by talking about what they will do.

This talk is not tightly structured, so it is not clear how we should model it, but

it seems important that both players talk; for simplicity let us assume that there is

one round of cheap talk, in which each player simultaneously announces a plan

for what he or she might do in the second stage, the actual play. We might call this

two-stage game "the battle of the sexes with one round of talk."

This two-stage game has many equilibria, including normatively appealing ones

in which the outcome is (2, 1) or (1, 2) with equal probability.'6 But these "fair"

equilibria do not seem likely to emerge. More plausibly, each player will argue for

his or her preferred equilibrium. That is, this two-stage game is often played as a

negotiation game in which cheap-talk "agreements" are sometimes reached; such

agreements are generally followed. If Pat says, "I'm going to the opera," and Chris

says, "I'm going to the opera," these messages, each of which is self-signaling and

self-committing, reinforce each other, so we think it is extremely likely that they

will regard themselves as having "agreed" on something self-enforcing, and they

will carry out their announcements, just as in Example 5, the game of pure coor-

dination. However, if Pat says, "I'm going to the opera," while Chris says, "I'm

16 Even if somehow the players cannot toss a coin to decide which of these Nash equilibria to play, they

could do something equivalent: for instance, each player can name "odd" or "even," and if both name

the same they play (2, 1) and if they differ they play (1, 2); of course, there are many other equilibria

with the same distribution of outcomes.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

116 Journal of Economic Perspectives

going to the fight," each message individually is self-signaling and self-enforcing

but they conflict and cancel: unless it's common knowledge between them who's

in charge (in which case probably only that person will speak), they have achieved

no coordination but only a "sidewalk shuffle."'17

This problem arises even in the pure coordination game, as the sidewalk shuffle

illustrates. But in a pure coordination game, the problem disappears if the players

can talk long enough. When there is some conflict, negotiation about on what to

coordinate can dissipate much of the potential gains from successful coordination

as in the battle of the sexes, as discussed by Farrell (1987). Indeed, when it is unclear

who controls the communication, a rigid "social convention" may do better for

the players than does cheap talk, in contrast to our earlier lesson. However, the

losses from this negotiation are bounded: Rabin (1994) shows that in any game,

when there are enough rounds of talk, in every plausible equilibrium each player

gets an expected payoff at least as great as he would get in the other player's favorite

Nash equilibrium. Effectively, the worst a player can do is to give up and say to the

other, "You choose."

Lessons From All This

We see no simple general lessons. Indeed, we reject several enticingly simple

(and popular) ideas: that cheap talk ensures that players will play a Nash equilib-

rium;'8 that an efficient outcome will emerge (even if this merely means efficient

among Nash equilibria); or that all information will be shared (or even as much

information as is consistent with incentives in the sense of equilibrium).

We particularly stress that cheap talk does not in any sense guarantee efficiency

in games. Because talk can help avoid misunderstandings and coordination failures,

it often improves outcomes (for the players), but even unlimited cheap talk does

not reliably lead to a Pareto-efficient outcome. For instance, when players have

divergent preferences across equilibria, much of the gain from coordination may

be lost to dispute and bargaining problems. Moreover, in cheap talk about private

information, the logic of equilibrium selection described above can readily be

shown to lead to inefficient equilibrium selection in reasonable examples.

We close, as we began, by relating cheap talk to the Hurwicz-style theory of

mechanism design. Cheap talk consists of costless, nonbinding, nonverifiable mes-

sages that may affect the listener's beliefs. Such messages are exactly what players

17 Cooper, Dejong, Forsythe and Ross (1989) report experiments with a somewhat similar game. Two-

way communication seemed much less effective in coordinating players than one-way communication.

In their game, however, many players make announcements that were neither self-signaling nor self-

committing (apparently hoping for an attractive but nonequilibrium payoff); this problem would not

arise in the game described here.

"l For reasons of space we have not discussed this underresearched topic here: interested readers should

consult Farrell (1988), Rabin (1990) and Aumann (1990).

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

Joseph Farrell and Matthew Rabin 11 7

convey in the theory of mechanism design (where the messages are often called

"reports of players' types"). How is cheap talk different from that theory? Clearly,

every cheap-talk equilibrium is an incentive-compatible mechanism (thisjust means

that it's an equilibrium). We think there are two differences between the

approaches.

First, there is typically no mediator in cheap talk. As a result, players may find

it hard to release just the information that they would like to release. A mediator

can ask each player for his type and promise to reveal only part of the information

conditional on the other player's type; this may be impossible in informal cheap

talk. Many failures of communication occur because each player thinks secrecy is

desirable, but would not think that if the player knew the other's information-as

in 0. Henry's short story, "The Gift of the Magi."

More fundamentally, in mechanism design, people choose how to structure

communication for a specific problem (within the constraints of incentives). In

Example 4, for instance, there is an incentive-compatible mechanism in which Sally

reveals her information, but we do not think it is a reasonable prediction under

informal cheap talk. Similarly, in mechanism design, the battle of the sexes has an

efficient symmetric solution: there are correlated equilibria that equitably achieve

efficiency. But cheap talk typically does not work that way. Rather, the study of

cheap talk is based on how people skeptically, but reasonably and mostly conven-

tionally, interpret language. It is the study of rational people who know how to

communicate in the ordinary way.

* Both authors thank, without blaming, Vincent Crawford, Miguel Costa Gomes, Steven

Matthews and Joel Sobel for helpful comments, as well as the helpful and patient editorial

team of the journal.

References

Carlton, D., and J. Perloff, Modern Industrial

Aumann, Robert, "Nash Equilibria are not

Self-Enforcing." In Gabszewicz, J. J., J.-F.

Organization. New York: HarperCollins College

Richard, and L. A. Wolsey, eds., Economic

Publishers, 1994.

Cooper, R., D. V. Dejong, R. Forsythe, and

Decision-Making: Games, Econometrics and Opti-

misation. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1990, pp.

T. W. Ross, "Communication in the Battle of

the Sexes Game: Some Experimental Re-

201-6.

Austen-Smith, D., "Information Transmission

in Debate," Amencan Journal of Political Science,

February 1990, 34:1, 124-52.

Austen-Smith, D., "Interested Experts and Pol-

sults, " RandJournal ofEconomics, Winter 1989,

20:4, 568-87.

Cooper, R., D. V. Dejong, R. Forsythe, and

T. W. Ross, "Alternative Institutions for Resolv-

icy Advice: Multiple Referrals under Open

ing Coordination Problems: Experimental Evi-

Rule," Games and Economic Behavior, January

dence on Forward Induction and Preplay Com-

1993, 5:1, 3-43.

munication." In Friedman, James, ed., Problems

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

118 Journal of Economic Perspectives

of Coordination in Economic Activity. Boston: Klu-

wer, 1994, pp. 29-146.

Crawford, V., "Theory and Experiment in the

"Pre-Play Communication in Two-Person Sealed-

Bid Auctions," Journal of Economic Theory, June

1989, 48, 245-52.

Matthews, Steven, Masahiro Okuno-Fujiwara,

Analysis of Strategic Interaction," invited sym-

posium on Experiment in the Analysis of Strate-

and Andrew Postlewaite, "Refining Cheap-Talk

gic Interaction, Econometric Society Seventh

Equilibria," Journal of Economic Theory, December

World Congress, Tokyo, August 1995.

1991, 55, 247-73.

Crawford, V., and J. Sobel, "Strategic Infor-

mation Transmission," Econometrica, November

1982, 50, 1431-51.

Pearce, D., "Rationalizable Strategic Behavior

and the Problem of Perfection," Econometrica,

July 1984, 52:4, 1029-50.

Farrell, Joseph, "Cheap Talk, Coordination,

and Entry," Rand Journal of Economics, Spring

Pinker, S., The Language Instinct. New York: W.

Morrow and Co., 1994.

1987, 18:1, 34-39.

Farrell, Joseph, "Communication, Coordina-

tion and Nash Equilibrium," Economic Letters,

Rabin, Matthew, "Communication Between

Rational Agents," Journal of Economic Theory, June

1990, 51, 144-70.

1988, 27:3, 209-14.

Farrell, Joseph, "Meaning and Credibility in

Cheap Talk Games," Games and Economics Behav-

Rabin, Matthew, "Incorporating Fairness into

Game Theory and Economics," American Eco-

nomic Review, December 1993, 83:5, 1281-302.

Rabin, Matthew, "A Model of Pre-Game Com-

ior, 1993, 5:4, 514-31.

Farrell, Joseph, and Robert Gibbons, "Cheap

Talk Can Matter in Bargaining," Journal of Eco-

munication," Journal of Economic Theory, August

1994, 63:2, 370-91.

nomic Theory, June 1989, 48:1, 221-37.

Gibbons, Robert, Game Theory for Applied Econ-

omists. Princeton: Princeton University Press,

1992.

Sally, D., "Conversation and Cooperation in

Social Dilemmas: A Meta-Analysis of Experi-

ments from 1958 to 1992," Rationality and Society,

January 1994, 7:1, 58-92.

Schelling, T. C., The Strategy of Conflict. Cam-

Hayek, F., "The Use of Knowledge in Society,"

American Economic Review, September 1945, 35,

bridge: Harvard University Press, 1960.

Seidmann, D. J., "Cheap Talk Games May

519-30.

Holt, Charles, "Industrial Organization: A

Have Unique, Informative Equilibrium Out-

Survey of Laboratory Research." In Kagel, John

comes," Games and Economic Behavior, 1992, 4:3,

H., and Alvin E. Roth, eds., Handbook of Experi-

422-25.

Sopher, Barry, and Iiigo Zapater,, "Commu-

mentalEconomics. Princeton: Princeton University

Press, 1995, pp. 349-444.

Hurwicz, L., "The Design of Mechanisms for

nication and Coordination in Signalling Games:

An Experimental Study," mimeo, June 1993.

Spence, A. M., Market Signaling: Informational

Resource Allocation," American Economic Review,

May 1973, 63, 1-30.

Kreps, David, and Robert Wilson, "Sequential

Transfer in Hiring and Related Screening Processes.

Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1974.

Equilibrium," Economet?ica, July 1982, 50, 863-94.

Matthews, Steven, "Veto Threats: Rhetoric in

Valley, K., L. Thompson, Robert Gibbons,

and M. Bazerman, "Is Talk Really Cheap? Out-

a Bargaining Game," Quarterly Journal of Econom-

performing Equilibrium Models of Communi-

ics, May 1989, 104:2, 347-70.

cation in Bargaining Games," mimeo, August

Matthews, Steven, and Andrew Postlewaite,

1995.

This content downloaded from 131.211.80.253 on Fri, 11 Mar 2016 14:40:46 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

