Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Equilibrium selection in global games with
strategic complementarities
David M. Frankel,a,* Stephen Morris,b and Ady Pauznerc
a

Cornell University, USA
b
Yale University, USA
c
Eitan Berglas School of Economics, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel
Received 30 January 2001; ﬁnal version received 27 November 2001

Abstract
We study games with strategic complementarities, arbitrary numbers of players and actions,
and slightly noisy payoff signals. We prove limit uniqueness: as the signal noise vanishes, the
game has a unique strategy proﬁle that survives iterative dominance. This generalizes a result
of Carlsson and van Damme (Econometrica 61 (1993) 989–1018) for two-player, two-action
games. The surviving proﬁle, however, may depend on ﬁne details of the structure of the noise.
We provide sufﬁcient conditions on payoffs for there to be noise-independent selection.
r 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
JEL classification: C72; D82
Keywords: Equilibrium selection; Global games; Strategic complementarities; Supermodular games

1. Introduction
In two-player, two-action games with common knowledge of payoffs, there often
exist two strict Nash equilibria. Carlsson and van Damme [5] showed a remarkable
result: if each player instead observes a noisy signal of the true payoffs, and if the ex
ante feasible payoffs include payoffs that make each action strictly dominant, then as
the noise becomes small, iterative strict dominance eliminates all equilibria but one.
In particular, if there are two Nash equilibria in the underlying complete information
*Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: dmf@cornell.edu (D.M. Frankel), stephen.morris@yale.edu (S. Morris), pauzner@
post.tau.ac.il (A. Pauzner).
0022-0531/02/$ - see front matter r 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
PII: S 0 0 2 2 - 0 5 3 1 ( 0 2 ) 0 0 0 1 8 - 2

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

2

game, then the risk-dominant equilibrium [14] must be played in the game with small
noise. Carlsson and van Damme called the noisy game with dominance regions a
‘‘global game.’’
Carlsson and van Damme’s result can be reconstructed in two logically separate
parts. First, there is a limit uniqueness result: as the noise in the global game becomes
arbitrarily small, for almost any payoffs there is a unique action that survives
iterative elimination of dominated strategies. The second is a noise-independent
selection result: as the noise goes to zero, the equilibrium played (for a given
realization of the payoffs) is independent of the distribution of the noise.
In this paper, we extend Carlsson and van Damme’s model to many player, many
action games.1 Our main assumption is that the actions can be ranked such that
there are strategic complementarities: an increase in one player’s action raises the
incentive for other players to raise their own actions. We show that the limit
uniqueness result generalizes. In contrast, the noise-independent selection result does
not hold in general. We present a counterexample (a two-player, four-action
symmetric game) in which the equilibrium selected in the limit as the noise goes to
zero does depend on the structure of the noise. We proceed to identify sufﬁcient
conditions for noise-independent selection to hold in games with a ﬁnite number of
players.
We consider the following setting. An unknown state of the world yAR is drawn
according to some prior. Each player i observes the signal y þ nZi ; where n > 0 is a
scale factor and Zi is a random variable with density fi : Our main assumptions are (1)
strategic complementarities: for any state y; each player’s best response is weakly
increasing in the actions of her opponents; (2) state monotonicity: for any given
opposing action proﬁle, a player’s best response is increasing in the state y; and (3)
dominance regions: at sufﬁciently low (high) states y; each player’s lowest (highest)
action is strictly dominant. Call this global game GðnÞ: Under these and some
technical continuity assumptions, we show that limit uniqueness holds: as the noise
scale factor n goes to zero, there is an essentially unique2 strategy proﬁle surviving
iterated deletion of dominated strategies in GðnÞ: In this unique surviving strategy
proﬁle, each player’s action is a nondecreasing function of her signal. Moreover, for
almost all states y; players play a Nash equilibrium of the complete information
game with payoff parameter y:
We also show that there may not be noise-independent selection: the particular
Nash equilibrium played at a state y may depend on the noise densities fi : This
implies that different equilibria of a given complete-information game g may be
selected, depending on the global game in which g is embedded. We proceed to
identify conditions on the payoffs of complete-information games g that guarantee
noise-independent selection. In particular, if g is a local potential game in which each
player’s payoffs are quasiconcave in her own action, then there is noise-independent
1

Our results also generalize the extensions of Carlsson and van Damme [6] and Kim [16], who show
limit uniqueness in games with ﬁnitely many identical players and two actions, under a uniform prior
assumption.
2
That is, for almost all signals.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

3

selection at g: a unique Nash equilibrium of g must be played in the limit as the
signal errors shrink, regardless of the global game in which g is embedded.
Local potential games include both the potential games of Monderer and Shapley
[19] and games with low p-dominant equilibria of Morris, Rob, and Shin [20] and
Kajii and Morris [15]. In particular, local potential games include (1) all two-player,
two-action games; (2) all many-player, two-action games with symmetric payoffs;
and (3) all two-player, three-action games with symmetric payoffs. In each of these
cases, we characterize the selected equilibrium.3
Strategic complementarities are present in many settings, including macroeconomic coordination failures, technology adoption, oligopoly, R&D competition,
coordination in teams, arms races, and pretrial bargaining.4 In a number of recent
applied papers, the global games approach has been used to select a unique
equilibrium. Examples include models of currency crises (Morris and Shin [21]),
bank runs (Goldstein and Pauzner [11]) and debt pricing (Morris and Shin [22]).5
However, the applications have generally been limited to situations with
homogenous agents and two actions. Our results make it possible to apply the
global games approach to a wider class of games. In particular, our model allows for
arbitrary mixtures of large and small (inﬁnitesimal) players, who can choose their
actions from arbitrary compact sets.6 (For ease of exposition, we assume a ﬁnite
number of players ﬁrst and later generalize the model to include continua of players.)
This paper also contributes to a large literature on games with strategy
complementarities, also known as supermodular games. These games were ﬁrst
studied as a class by Topkis [26] and are further analyzed by Vives [28] and Milgrom
and Roberts. The connection between our ﬁndings and existing results on
supermodular games is discussed in the conclusion.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. The base model, with a ﬁnite
number of players, is presented in Section 2. We prove limit uniqueness in Section 3
and partially characterize the unique equilibrium in Section 4. In Section 5, we show
that Carlsson and van Damme’s noise-independence result does not generalize.
Section 6 introduces conditions on the payoffs of the game (own action
quasiconcavity and the existence of a local potential maximizer) that sufﬁce for
noise-independent selection and discusses classes of games that satisfy the
conditions. In Section 7, we show that the limit uniqueness and partial
characterization results generalize to models with large and small players. Section
8 concludes. All proofs are relegated to the appendix.
3

In cases (1) and (2), there is own-action quasiconcavity since there are only two actions. In case (3),
noise-independent selection holds even without own-action quasiconcavity.
4
See Milgrom and Roberts for a survey of applications.
5
Morris and Shin [23] survey such applications and describe sufﬁcient conditions for limit uniqueness in
games with a continuum of identical players and two actions, under slightly weaker technical assumptions
than those assumed in this paper. Their results incorporate other applications of global games such as
Morris and Shin [21,22].
6
Note that any ﬁnite set of actions is compact. For recent applications of our more general results, see,
e.g., Goldstein [10] (four actions, continuum of players) and Goldstein and Pauzner [12] (two actions, two
continua of players).

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

4

2. The game
The global game GðnÞ is deﬁned as follows. The set of players is f1; y; Ig:7 A state
yAR is drawn from the real line according to a continuous density f with connected
support. Each player i observes a signal xi ¼ y þ nZi ; where n > 0 is a scale factor
and each Zi is distributed according to an atomless density fi with support contained
in the interval ½12; 12 : The signals are conditionally independent: Zi is independent of
Zj for all iaj:
The action set of player i; Ai D½0; 1 ; can be any closed, countable union of closed
intervals and points that contains 0 and 1.8 If player i chooses action ai AAi ; her
payoff is ui ðai ; ai ; yÞ; ai ¼ ðaj Þjai denotes the action proﬁle of i’s opponents.
Let Dui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞ be the difference in the utility of player i from playing ai
versus a0i against the action proﬁle ai when the payoff parameter is y:9 Let us write
ai Xa0i if actions are weakly higher under ai than under a0i : if aj Xa0j for each jai:
We make the following assumptions on payoff functions.
A1. Strategic complementarities: A player’s incentive to raise her action is weakly
increasing in her opponents’ actions: if ai Xa0i and ai Xa0i then for all y;
Dui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞXDui ðai ; a0i ; a0i ; yÞ:
A2. Dominance regions: For extreme values of the payoff parameter y; the extreme
actions are strictly dominant: there exist thresholds yoy% ; where ½y  n; %y þ n is
contained in the interior of the support of f; such% that, for all% i and for all
opposing action proﬁles ai ; Dui ð0; ai ; ai ; yÞ > 0 if ai a0 and ypy; and
%
Dui ð1; ai ; ai ; yÞ > 0 if ai a1 and yX %y:
If each player’s action space is ﬁnite, we can replace A2 by the weaker assumption:
A20 : Unique equilibrium regions: For extreme values of the payoff parameter, the
equilibrium is unique: there exist thresholds yoy% in the interior of the support
%
of y such that for all yoy; the complete information
game in which the payoff
%
function of each player i is ui ð ; yÞ has a unique equilibrium ða1 ; y; aI Þ; for all
%
%
y > y% ; the complete information game with payoffs ui ð ; yÞ has a unique
equilibrium ða% 1 ; y; a% I Þ: By Theorem 6 in Milgrom and Roberts [18], ai pa% i for
%
all i: We assume that ai oa% i for at least one player i:
%
Note that under assumption A1; A20 is equivalent to requiring that there is a
unique action proﬁle surviving iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies if
ye½y; y% (Milgrom and Roberts [18]).
%
7

The case of a continuum of players is treated in Section 7.
S
That is, Ai is a closed union of disjoint closed intervals M
m¼1 ½bm ; cm where MX1 can be inﬁnity.
(Isolated points are represented by setting bm ¼ cm :) Requiring Ai to include 0 and 1 is not restrictive since
a player’s highest and lowest actions can always be normalized to 0 and 1, respectively, by rescaling the
payoff functions.
9
That is, Dui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞ ¼ ui ðai ; ai ; yÞ  ui ða0i ; ai ; yÞ:
8

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

5

A3. State monotonicity: Higher states make higher actions more appealing: there is
a K0 > 0 such that for all ai Xa0i and y; y0 A½y; y% ; yXy0 ; Dui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞ 
%
Dui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; y0 ÞXK0 ðai  a0i Þðy  y0 Þ:
A4. Payoff continuity: Each ui ðai ; ai ; yÞ is continuous in all arguments.
If player i’s action space is ﬁnite, continuity with respect to ai is vacuous. The
following assumption is also vacuous if action sets are ﬁnite.
A5. Bounded derivatives: A player’s utility is Lipschitz continuous in her own action
and her marginal utility of raising her action is Lipschitz continuous in other
players’ actions. More precisely,
(a) for each y and ai ; there exists a constant K1 such that for all ai ; a0i ;
jDui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞjpK1 jai  a0i j;
(b) for each y there exists a constant K2 such that for all ai ; a0i ; ai ; and a0i ;
X
jaj  a0j j: ð1Þ
jDui ðai ; a0i ; ai ; yÞ  Dui ðai ; a0i ; a0i ; yÞjpK2 jai  a0i j
jai

A pure strategy for player i is a function si : R-Ai : A pure strategy profile is a
vector of pure strategies, s ¼ ðsi ÞIi¼1 : The proﬁle s is increasing if si ðxi Þ is weakly
increasing in xi for all i; it is left (right) continuous if each si is left (right) continuous.
Proﬁle s0 is higher than proﬁle s ðs0 XsÞ if s0i ðxi ÞXsi ðxi Þ for all i and xi AR: A mixed
strategy is a probability distribution over pure strategies, and a mixed strategy proﬁle
is an assignment of mixed strategies to players.10 (Players are not restricted to pure
strategies.)

3. Limit uniqueness
Our solution concept is iterative strict dominance. First, we eliminate pure
strategies that are strictly dominated, as rational players will never pick (i.e., put
positive weight on) such strategies. Then we eliminate a player’s pure strategies that
are strictly dominated if her opponents are known to mix only over the pure
strategies that survived the prior round of elimination; and so on. Theorem 1 shows
10

More precisely, we follow Aumann [2] in modelling a mixed strategy for player i as a function si from
[0,1] (representing the possible outcomes of player i’s randomizing device) to the space AR
i (representing
the space of pure strategies, which are functions from R to Ai ). Thus, si ðyÞ is the pure strategy played by i
if her randomizing device yields the value y: Following Aumann, we restrict players to mixed strategies si
for which the corresponding function h: ½0; 1 R-Ai deﬁned by hðy; xi Þ ¼ si ðyÞðxi Þ is measurable. This
property ensures that a mixed strategy and a distribution on the type space R induces a distribution of
actions. With this assumption, players are able to calculate their expected payoffs against any vector of
opposing mixed strategies.

6

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

that as the signal errors shrink to zero, this process selects an essentially unique
Bayesian equilibrium of the game.
Theorem 1. GðnÞ has an essentially unique strategy profile surviving iterative strict
dominance in the limit as n-0: It is an increasing pure strategy profile. More precisely,
there exists an increasing pure strategy profile sn such that if, for each n > 0; sn is a
pure strategy profile that survives iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ; then
limn-0 sni ðxi Þ ¼ sni ðxi Þ for almost all xi AR:
3.1. Intuition for limit uniqueness
To see the intuition, consider the case of a symmetric, two-player game with a
continuum of actions ðAi ¼ ½0; 1 Þ: Assume that the two players have the same
distribution of signal errors and that their prior over y is uniform over a large
interval that includes ½y  n; y% þ n : (At the end of this section we explain how the
argument works with a% nonuniform prior.) Further assume that a player’s payoff
function is strictly concave in her own action, so that her best response does not
jump in response to small changes in her posterior distribution over the state y or her
opponent’s action. Recall that a pure strategy is a function from a player’s signal xi
to an action ai A½0; 1 ; and players can choose mixtures over these pure strategies.
By the assumption of dominance regions (A2), we know that a player who
observes a signal above some threshold must choose ai ¼ 1: This means that no
player will ever choose (i.e., put positive weight on) a pure strategy that lies below the
curve in Fig. 1.
Knowing this, a player will never choose a strategy below the best response to this
curve. This relies on strategic complementarities (A1): any pure strategy that lies
above the curve would have a best response that lies weakly above the best response
to the curve. So the best response to the curve is a new lower bound on the pure
strategies that can ever be played. We iterate this process ad inﬁnitum, and denote
the limit by S (Fig. 2). Note that S is a symmetric equilibrium of the game (and thus
%
% and that any strategy that survives iterative strict
survives iterative
strict dominance)
dominance lies weakly above S; and so S is the smallest strategy surviving iterative
%
%
strict dominance.
By a symmetric argument, there must exist a largest strategy surviving iterated
% which must lie above
deletion of strictly dominated strategies, which we denote by S;

Fig. 1.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

7

Fig. 2.

Fig. 3.

S (see Fig. 3). Now if we show that S% must equal S; we will have established the
%
%
existence
of a unique strategy proﬁle surviving iterative
strict dominance. This
strategy for proving the dominance solvability of a game was discussed in Milgrom
and Roberts [18].
Our argument establishing that S and S% must coincide exploits the monotonicity
% where each property is used in the following
properties A1 and A3. We will note
argument. Because of the dominance regions, the strategy S% must prescribe playing 0
for low enough signals. Thus, there is a translation of S that lies entirely to the left of
%
S% and touches S% at at least one point (see Fig. 4). Label this translated curve S̃: Let
the amount of the translation be d: Let xn be the signal corresponding to the point at
which S% and S̃ touch. Finally, write an for the best response of a player who has
observed signal xn and believes that his opponent is following strategy S̃:
Since both S% and S are equilibria, we know that
%
% n Þ ¼ Sðxn þ dÞ:
ð2Þ
Sðx
%
% we know by strategic complementarities (A1) that
But since S̃ is everywhere above S;
% n Þ:
an XSðx

ð3Þ

We will now show that with a uniform prior over y; an must be strictly less than
Sðxn þ dÞ unless S̃ and S coincide. Since this inequality would contradict (2) and (3),
%
%
the two curves must coincide. As S% lies entirely between them, it must also coincide
with S; this will show that a unique equilibrium survives iterative strict dominance.
%

8

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Fig. 4.

With a uniform prior over y; the posterior of a player with signal xn over the error
in her signal, xn  y; is exactly the same as the posterior of a player with signal xn þ d
over the error in her signal, xn þ d  y: Since the signal error of the player’s
opponent is independent of y; the player’s posterior over the difference between her
signal error and that of her opponent is also the same if her signal is xn as if her
signal is xn þ d: But the difference between the two players’ signal errors is just the
difference between their signals: ðxi  yÞ  ðxj  yÞ ¼ xi  xj : Thus, a player’s
posterior over the difference between her signal and that of her opponent is the
same at xn as at xn þ d: Hence, since S̃ is an exact translation of S; a player who
%
observes xn and thinks that her opponent will play according to S̃ expects the same
action distribution as a player who observes xn þ d and thinks that the opponent will
play according to S: But assumption A3 implies that a player’s optimal action is
strictly increasing %in her estimate of y; controlling for her opponent’s action
distribution. Hence, if d > 0; then an must be less than Sðxn þ dÞ: Since in fact an is
%
at least Sðxn þ dÞ; d must equal zero, and thus S and S% coincide if the prior over y is
%
%
uniform.
The same property still holds with a general prior, in the limit as the signal errors
shrink to zero. When the signal errors are small, a player can be sure that the true
payoff parameter y is very close to her signal. Consequently, her prior over y is
approximately uniform for the small interval of values of y that are still possible
given her signal. (Recall that the model assumes a continuous prior over y and a
ﬁnite, very small support of the signal errors.) Thus, the above argument still holds in
the limit: d must shrink to zero (and thus S and S% must coincide) as the signal errors
%
become small.

4. A partial characterization
Theorem 2 partially characterizes the surviving equilibria of the global game when
the noise is small. It states that in the limit, for all but a vanishing set of payoff
parameters y; players play arbitrarily close to some pure strategy Nash equilibrium
of the complete information game with payoffs ui ð ; y0 Þ for some y0 that is arbitrarily
close to y: The intuition is that for small signal errors, players can precisely estimate

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

9

both the payoff parameter y and, for most signals, what other players will do.11
Since players are best responding to beliefs that are arbitrarily precise, the result
must be very close to a Nash equilibrium of a nearby underlying complete
information game.
For any e > 0 and n > 0; let Qðe; nÞ be the set of parameters y for which the
surviving strategy proﬁles in GðnÞ do not all prescribe that players play e-close to
some common pure strategy Nash equilibrium of some complete information game
whose payoff parameter is e-close to y: More precisely, Qðe; nÞ is the set of
parameters y for which there is no Nash equilibrium action proﬁle aA Ii¼1 Ai ; of the
complete information game with payoffs ðui ð ; y0 ÞÞIi¼1 for some y0 A½y  e; y þ e ; such
that for every strategy sn surviving iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ; jsni ðyÞ  ai jpe
for all i: Theorem 2 shows that for any e > 0; this set becomes arbitrarily small as n
shrinks to zero.
Theorem 2. In GðnÞ in the limit as n-0; for almost all payoff parameters y; players
play arbitrarily close to some pure strategy Nash equilibrium of the complete
information game with payoffs ui ð ; y0 Þ for some y0 that is arbitrarily close to y: More
precisely, for any e > 0 there is a %n > 0 such that for any no %n; Qðe; nÞ is contained in a
finite union of closed intervals of R whose measure is less than e:12
Theorem 2 has an interesting implication for symmetric games with a continuum
of actions. Suppose that the action played in a locally stable (unstable) equilibrium
of the underlying complete information game with payoff parameter y
monotonically rises (falls) as y rises.13 Then by Theorems 1 and 2, any strategy
proﬁle that survives iterative dominance must almost always prescribe that
players play a stable Nash equilibria of the underlying complete information
game. The strategy cannot coincide with an unstable Nash equilibrium of the
underlying game as y rises since surviving strategies are nondecreasing in players’
signals.
This implication is illustrated in Fig. 5. The dashed line shows the set of Nash
equilibria of the underlying complete information games with payoff parameters
equal to xi : The upwards (downwards) sloping segments correspond to the locally
stable (unstable) Nash equilibria of these games. The bold curve illustrates how the
essentially unique surviving strategy proﬁle in the global game GðnÞ must look in the
limit as n shrinks. It must coincide with a stable Nash equilibrium except at points
where it jumps from a lower stable equilibrium to a higher one.
11

With small signal errors, there cannot be many signals at which players are very uncertain about
opponents’ possible actions. Otherwise, over a wide range of signals, opponents’ strategies would have to
rise considerably for small increases in their signals. (Recall that strategies must be weakly increasing when
the signal errors are small.) This is impossible since the action space is bounded.
12
For any e; the number of intervals in the union is independent of n: The number is ﬁnite for any given e
but may grow without bound as e shrinks to zero.
13
‘‘Locally stable’’ refers to the traditional notion in which the best response function intersects the 45
line at a slope of less than 1.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

10

Fig. 5.

5. Noise-independent selection: a counterexample
In showing limit uniqueness, we began with a given noise structure and scaled it
down by taking the scale factor n to zero. Our result does not imply that the selected
equilibrium is independent of the structure of the noise (i.e., of the densities fi ).
Carlsson and van Damme’s [5] result implies that noise-independent selection
holds in 2 2 games. Their proof method does not rely on properties of the game’s
payoffs. This method can be generalized to additional classes of games, but not to
all. To obtain some intuition, suppose the game has two players, each with the same
ﬁnite action set A% and the same payoff function, and each player’s noise term has the
same symmetric distribution f : Assume that each player follows the same increasing
strategy, s: R- %
A: As n-0; what beliefs does each player have over the action of her
opponent at the critical point where she switches from one action to another? Recall
that for small n; each player’s posterior belief about the other’s signal is computed
approximately as if she had a uniform prior over y:
Suppose ﬁrst that there are two actions, 0 and 1. Consider a symmetric equilibrium
given by a pure strategy proﬁle s satisfying
(
sðxÞ ¼

0

if xoc;

1

if xXc:

A player observing signal c will assign probability 12 to her opponent’s choosing
action 0 and probability 12 to her opponent’s choosing action 1. This is independent
of the choice of c and the distribution f : Thus as the noise goes to zero, c must
converge to the payoff parameter at which the player is indifferent between the two
actions if she has a 50/50 conjecture over her opponent’s action. This is simply the
symmetric version of Carlsson and van Damme’s [5] result.
Now suppose that there are three actions, 0, 12; and 1, so that
8
>
< 0 if xoc1 ;
sðxÞ ¼ 12 if c1 pxoc2 ;
>
:
1 ifc2 px:

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

11

A player observing signal c1 will assign probability 12 to her opponent choosing action
0, some probability l to her opponent choosing action 12; and probability 12  l to her
opponent choosing action 1; a player observing signal c2 will assign probability 12  l
to her opponent choosing action 0, probability l to her opponent choosing action 12
and probability 12 to her opponent choosing action 1. For any distribution f ; we can
choose c1 and c2 so that l takes any value in ½0; 12 : In other words, the distribution of
noise does not affect the limiting conjectures that each player may end up having
over her opponent’s actions.
This implies noise-independent selection: any proﬁle ðc1 ; c2 Þ that is an equilibrium
as n-0 under a noise structure f must also be an equilibrium under any other noise
structure f 0 : To see why, let us distinguish between two cases. In the ﬁrst, c1  c2
does not shrink to 0 as n-0: This means that l converges to 12: for sufﬁciently small
n; a player with signal c1 is indifferent between 0 and 12 and thinks that her opponent
will play 0 or 12 with equal probabilities; a player with signal c2 is indifferent between 12
and 1 and puts equal probabilities on her opponent’s playing 12 and 1. These signals
clearly must converge to particular payoff parameters, independent of the structure
of the signal errors (since the player’s beliefs are independent of f ).
In the second case, limn-0 ðc1  c2 Þ ¼ 0: Here, l need not converge to 12: But if we
replace the signal error structure f with some other structure f 0 ; we can construct an
equilibrium near the one given by f by simply adjusting the gap between c1 and c2 so
as to keep l the same under f 0 as under f : Since the gap between c1 and c2
asymptotically shrinks to zero, we can make this adjustment without changing the
limit to which both cutoffs converge. Thus, under f 0 there is a sequence of equilibria
of the global game that converges to the same limit as the sequence of equilibria
under f : This explains why there is noise-independent selection. In the next section,
we show that there is noise-independent selection for two-player, three-action,
symmetric-payoff games, even with general asymmetric noise distributions fi :
With four or more actions, the above property ceases to hold. The set of
conjectures a player can have over her opponent’s action can depend on the structure
of the noise. With three actions, each proﬁle ðc1 ; c2 Þ gave rise to one unknown, l;
which could be adjusted arbitrarily by changing the distance between c1 and c2 : With
four actions, each proﬁle ðc1 ; c2 ; c3 Þ gives rise to three unknowns. This is illustrated in
Fig. 6. The density centered at each threshold ci represents the posterior distribution
over the signal of the opponent of a player whose signal is ci : The area under the
segment marked b (respectively, c) of the posterior of a player with signal c3 is the
probability she assigns to her opponent’s having seen a signal between c1 and c2
(respectively, between c2 and c3 ).14

14
Likewise, the area under the segment marked c (respectively, b) of the posterior of an agent with signal
c3 is the probability she assigns to her opponent’s having seen a signal between c2 and c3 (respectively,
between c1 and c2 ). By symmetry of the signal errors, the two areas marked a are equal, as are the two
areas marked c: Also by symmetry, the probability that an opponent of an agent with signal c1 sees a signal
between c2 and c3 must equal a þ c  b; as indicated.

12

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Fig. 6.

The three probabilities a; b; and c are a minimal set of probabilities that sufﬁce to
determine the action distributions expected by players at each of the thresholds.
However, by altering the proﬁle we have only two degrees of freedom: we can change
c3  c2 and c2  c1 : This means that if we change the noise structure f ; we will not
necessarily be able to adjust the proﬁle in order to preserve the action distribution
seen by players at each of the thresholds c1 ; c2 ; and c3 : Thus, if f changes, we may
not be able to keep the players indifferent between adjacent actions simply by
adjusting the distance between the thresholds. It may also be necessary to shift the
entire proﬁle in order to change the payoff parameter that each player sees. In other
words, changing the noise structure may alter the signals at which the unique
surviving strategy proﬁle jumps between any two actions. This is what it means for
the equilibrium to depend on the structure of the noise.
Theorem 3. There exists a two-person, four-action game satisfying A12A5 in which
for different noise structures, different equilibria are selected in the limit as the signal
errors vanish.
Theorem 3 is proved by constructing such a game. It is clear from the proof that
noise-independent selection would continue to fail if the payoffs of the game were
perturbed by a small amount.

6. A sufﬁcient condition for noise-independent selection
The preceding counterexample shows that for certain complete information
games, different ways of embedding them into global games (with different noise
structures) can lead to different predictions. That is, the payoffs of the complete
information game may not tell us which equilibrium will be selected. We now focus
on the complete information game corresponding to some parameter y and
identify conditions on payoffs of that game that guarantee that a particular
equilibrium will be selected in the limit regardless of the noise structure. We will

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

13

show that there is noise-independent selection in that game if (a) its payoffs
are own-action quasiconcave and (b) it has a strategy proﬁle that is a local potential
maximizer.
A complete information game g ¼ ðg1 ; y; gI Þ is a collection of payoff functions,
with each gi : A-R: For any player i; let Ai be the set of all opposing action vectors
ðaj Þjai : The complete information game g is own-action quasiconcave if for all i and
opposing action proﬁles ai AAi and for all constants c; the set fai : gi ðai ; ai ÞXcg is
convex.15 It has local potential maximizer an if there is a function vðaÞ
(where a ¼ ðai ÞIi¼1 is an action proﬁle), called a local potential function, which is
strictly maximized by an ; such that against any action proﬁle ai AAi ; if
moving i’s action a bit closer to ani raises v; then this also raises i’s payoff. More
formally:
Deﬁnition 1. Action proﬁle an is a local potential maximizer (LP-maximizer) of the
complete information game g if there exists a local potential function v: A-R such
that vðan Þ > vðaÞ for all aaan and, for each i; a function mi : ai -Rþ such that for all
ai AAi and ai AAi ;
1. If ai > ani then there is an a0i AAi that is strictly less than ai ; such that for all a00i AAi
lying in ½a0i ; ai ;
vða00i ; ai Þ  vðai ; ai Þpmi ðai Þ½gi ða00i ; ai Þ  gi ðai ; ai Þ :

ð4Þ

2. If ai oani then there is an a0i AAi that is strictly greater than ai ; such that for all
a00i AAi lying in ½ai ; a0i ; (4) holds.
The local potential function generalizes the notion of a potential function in
Monderer and Shapley [19]. A potential function is a common payoff function v on
action proﬁles such that the change in a player’s payoff from switching from one
action to another is always the same as the change in the potential function. For a
local potential function, we make the weaker requirement that the payoff change
from switching away from an is always less (after multiplying by a constant) than the
change in the potential function.
Importantly, the LP-maximizer property guarantees that a proﬁle is a strict Nash
equilibrium if payoffs are own-action quasiconcave:
Lemma 1. If an is an LP-maximizer of the own-action quasiconcave complete
information game g; then an is a strict Nash equilibrium.
The main result of this section (stated formally at the end) is that in the global
game, if the payoffs at y are own-action concave and have an LP-maximizing action
15
Unlike concavity, this does not imply that the slope of i’s payoff is decreasing in her action. It only
guarantees that there are no local maxima other than the global maxima (which could be a single action or
an interval).

14

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

proﬁle an ; then in the limit as the signal errors vanish, any strategy proﬁle that
survives iterative strict dominance must assign to each player i the action ani at the
signal y: Thus, there is noise-independent selection at y: the proﬁle an depends only
on the payoffs at y and not on the shape of the signal errors.
An intuition is as follows. For concreteness, let us regard v as God’s utility
function. God is pleased when people take steps that are in their self-interest: ‘‘God
helps those who help themselves’’ (Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard’s Almanack,
1732). More precisely, a change in a player’s action pleases God (i.e., raises v) if and
only if it raises the player’s own payoff. Not all games have a local potential
function; in those that do not, God does not have a preference ordering over strategy
proﬁles. For example, in matching pennies, God must want player A to play B’s
action but must also want B to play the opposite of A’s action, since both are best
responses. There is no preference ordering with this property.
Suppose for simplicity that the game is symmetric and has a ﬁnite set of actions
and that a player’s utility depends directly on her signal, rather than on y (which is
approximately true anyway when the signal errors are small). Suppose also
that for the complete information game corresponding to each signal x; there is a
local potential function vx ð Þ; which is maximized when all players take some
action anx : vx ð Þ represents God’s preferences over action proﬁles when the payoff
parameter equals x: Assume that anx is nondecreasing in x: Fig. 7 depicts anx as a
function of x:
We can interpret the function depicted in Fig. 7 as a strategy proﬁle: if player i’s
signal is xi ; the proﬁle instructs her to play anxi : This proﬁle is very pleasing to God,
since each player plays according to the action proﬁle that maximizes God’s utility if
the payoff parameter equals her signal (which it approximately does for small signal
errors). However, God may not be entirely pleased near the points of discontinuity
of the strategy proﬁle, since there might be miscoordination: some players will get
signals above the threshold and others below, so a potential-maximizing strategy
proﬁle will not generally be played. But God is pleased as punch if the payoff
parameter y is at least n away from any point of discontinuity since then players
coordinate on the potential-maximizing action.
Starting with this proﬁle, let us imagine what happens if we let players take turns
in best responding.16 Critically, God likes it when people best respond, since she
wants them to do what is in their best interests. Thus, seeing a player best respond
can only increase God’s pleasure. But since the original proﬁle depicted in Fig. 7 is
already very pleasing to God, iterative best response cannot lead us to stray far from
this proﬁle. In particular, at a distance of more than n from any discontinuity of the
original strategy proﬁle, the proﬁle cannot change, since for signals received here
players are already playing the proﬁle that is most pleasing to God. Moreover, the
limit of the iterations must be an equilibrium, since the best response to the limit is
the limit itself.17 However, any equilibrium must survive iterative strict dominance.
16
That is, player 1 switches to her best response, then 2 best responds to the resulting proﬁle, and so on,
repeatedly cycling through the players.
17
In this intuition we assume such a limit exists.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

15

Fig. 7.

By limit uniqueness, for small n; all strategies surviving iterative strict dominance
must be close to this limiting equilibrium, which itself must be close to the original
proﬁle depicted in Fig. 7. This implies that for small n; players must play close to the
potential-maximizing action in any strategy proﬁle that survives iterative strict
dominance, regardless of the noise structure.
Theorem 4. Let sn be either the left- or the right-continuous version of the unique
strategy profile surviving iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ in the limit as n-0: If the
complete information game at some payoff parameter y is own-action quasiconcave and
has an LP-maximizer an ; then sn ðyÞ ¼ an ; regardless of the noise structure.
The LP-maximizer conditions of Deﬁnition 1 are rather complex. In Sections 6.1
and 6.2, we describe simpler conditions that are sufﬁcient for an action proﬁle to be
an LP-maximizer. In Sections 6.3–6.5, we apply those results to give a complete
characterization of the LP-maximizer in certain special classes of games.
6.1. Weighted potential maximizers
One sufﬁcient condition for an to be a local potential maximizer is that an is a
weighted potential maximizer. This is a slight generalization of Monderer and Shapley’s
[19] notion of an action proﬁle that maximizes a potential function for a game.
Deﬁnition. Action proﬁle an is a weighted potential maximizer (WP-maximizer)
of g if there exists a vector mARIþ and a weighted potential function v: A-R with
vðan Þ > vðaÞ for all aaan ; such that for all i; ai ; a0i AAi and ai AAi ;
vðai ; ai Þ  vða0i ; ai Þ ¼ mi ½gi ðai ; ai Þ  gi ða0i ; ai Þ :
6.2. p-Dominance conditions
Let p ¼ ðpi ÞIi¼1 : The notion of p-dominance is a many player, many action game
generalization of risk dominance (see Kajii and Morris [15]). An action proﬁle an is
p-dominant if it is a best response for each player i if she puts weight at least pi on her
opponents’ playing according to an :

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

16

Deﬁnition 2. Action proﬁle an is p-dominant in g if
X

li ðai Þgi ðani ; ai ÞX

ai

X

li ðai Þgi ðai ; ai Þ;

ai

for all i; ai AAi and li ADðAi Þ with li ðani ÞXpi :
For low enough p; p-dominance is a sufﬁcient condition for an action proﬁle to be
an LP-maximizer.
Lemma 2 (Morris and Ui [24]). If action profile an is p-dominant for some p with
PI
n
i¼1 pi o1; then a is an LP-maximizer.
6.3. Two-player, two-action games with two strict Nash equilibria
Let I ¼ 2 and A1 ¼ A2 ¼ f0; 1g: Let g1 ð0; 0Þ > g1 ð1; 0Þ; g1 ð1; 1Þ > g1 ð0; 1Þ;
g2 ð0; 0Þ > g2 ð0; 1Þ and g2 ð1; 1Þ > g2 ð1; 0Þ; so (0,0) and (1,1) are both strict Nash
equilibria. Now let
g1 ð0; 0Þ  g1 ð1; 0Þ
;
g1 ð0; 0Þ  g1 ð1; 0Þ þ g1 ð1; 1Þ  g1 ð0; 1Þ
g2 ð0; 0Þ  g2 ð0; 1Þ
qn2 ¼
:
g2 ð0; 0Þ  g2 ð0; 1Þ þ g2 ð1; 1Þ  g2 ð1; 0Þ

qn1 ¼

A weighted potential function v is given by the following matrix:

(0,0) is a WP-maximizer if qn1 þ qn2 > 1 and ð1; 1Þ is a WP-maximizer if qn1 þ qn2 o1:
Thus, generically, there is a WP-maximizer. The WP-maximizer is the risk dominant
equilibrium in the sense of Harsanyi and Selten [14].
6.4. Many-player, two-action games with symmetric payoffs
Let Ai ¼ f0; 1g for each i and suppose gi ðai ; ai Þ ¼ gðai ; ai Þ depends only on ai
and the number of players jai who play 1. Let xðnÞ be the relative payoff to playing
1 versus 0 when n other players play 1 (i.e., xðnÞ ¼ gð1; ai Þ  gð0; ai Þ for any ai in
which n players play 1). Assume strategic complementarities: i.e., xðnÞ is increasing

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

17

in n: Let the potential function be
(P
m1
k¼0 xðkÞ if the number of players playing 1 in a is m > 0;
vðaÞ ¼
0
if no players play 1 in a:
Also set mi ¼ 1 for all i: One can easily verify that 1 ¼ ð1; y; 1Þ is the WP-maximizer
PI1
P
if I1
k¼0 xðkÞ > 0 and that 0 is the WP-maximizer if
k¼0 xðkÞo0: Thus generically
in this class of games, there exists a WP-maximizer.
An equivalent characterization of the WP-maximizer is the following.
Suppose that a player believes that the number of her opponents playing
action 1 is uniformly distributed (between 0 and I  1). If action 1 is a best response
to that conjecture, then the action proﬁle 1 is the WP-maximizer; if 0 is a best
response to that conjecture, then 0 is the WP-maximizer. These are equivalent since
PI1
1
k¼0 xðkÞ is just the relative payoff to playing 1 if one has such beliefs. This case
I
(two actions, many players) was ﬁrst studied by Carlsson and van Damme [6] and
Kim [16], who obtained the same result using different techniques in more restrictive
settings.
This characterization extends naturally to the case of a continuum of players (not
R1
formally treated here). In such games, the formula becomes 0 xðnÞ dn; where xðnÞ is
the relative payoff to playing 1 versus 0 when a proportion n of the other players
play 1. Such two-action, symmetric payoff games with continuum of players have
been the focus of the applied literature using global games discussed in the
introduction.
6.5. Two-player, three-action games with symmetric payoffs
Let I ¼ 2; A1 ¼ A2 ¼ f0; 1; 2g; g1 ða1 ; a2 Þ ¼ g2 ða2 ; a1 Þ ¼ wa1 a2 ; where wxx > wyx for
all yax and wxy  wx0 y > wxy0  wx0 y0 if x > x0 and y > y0 : Write Dxy
x0 y0 for twice the
net expected gain of choosing action x0 rather than y0 against a 50/50 conjecture on
whether the opponent will choose action x or y: Thus
0
0
0
0
Dxy
x0 y0 ¼ wx x þ wx y  wy x  wy y :

yx
xy
xy
xy
Note that Dxy
x0 y0 ¼ Dx0 y0 and Dx0 y0 ¼ Dy0 x0 : Note that Dxy > 0 implies that action
proﬁle ðx; xÞ pairwise risk dominates action proﬁle ðy; yÞ: Now we have the following
complete (for generic games) characterization of the LP-maximizers:
*

12
21
(0,0) is the LP-maximizer if D01
01 > 0 and either (1) D12 > 0 or (2) D21 > 0 and
D02
D02
10
12
01 o 21 :
D01 D21

12
(1,1) is the LP-maximizer if D10
10 > 0 and D12 > 0:
21
10
01
* ð2; 2Þ is the LP-maximizer if D
21 > 0 and either (1) D10 > 0 or (2) D01 > 0 and
*

D02
D02
10
> D12
21 :
D01
21
01

18

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

The following example illustrates these conditions:

21
02
02
(0,0) is the LP-maximizer, since D01
01 ¼ 3; D21 ¼ 1; D10 ¼ 2 and D12 ¼ 1: Note that
(2,2) pairwise risk dominates both (1,1) and (0,0), but nonetheless is not the LPmaximizer.
Proving the above claims (i.e., constructing the local potential functions) involves
tedious algebra. Here, we will just note two cases to illustrate the issues.
12
Case 1: D10
10 > 0 and D12 > 0: Consider the following local potential function:

for some small but strictly positive e: Setting an ¼ ð1; 1Þ and m1 ð0Þ ¼ m1 ð2Þ ¼ m2 ð0Þ ¼
m2 ð2Þ ¼ 1; one can verify that the conditions of Deﬁnition 1 are satisﬁed.
D02

D02

01

21

21
02
02
10
12
Case 2: D01
01 > 0; D21 > 0; D10 > 0; D12 > 0 and D01 oD21 : Consider the following

local potential function:

for some small but strictly positive e and positive l1 and l2 such that
02
D21
21 l1 D12
o o 02 :
01 l
D01
2 D10

Setting an ¼ ð0; 0Þ; m1 ð1Þ ¼ m2 ð1Þ ¼ l1 ; m1 ð2Þ ¼ m2 ð2Þ ¼ l2 ; one can verify that the
conditions of Deﬁnition 1 are satisﬁed.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

19

7. A continuum player generalization
The results stated above are for a ﬁnite set of players. However, many applications
of global games assume a continuum (or several different continua) of players. We
now show that our limit uniqueness results (Theorems 1 and 2) extend to this case.
We make the following changes to the global game GðnÞ: The set of players,
denoted I; is partitioned into a ﬁnite set T of ‘‘types’’ (subsets) of players. Each type
contains either a single player or a continuum of identical players of ﬁnite measure.
This can capture, e.g., the presence of both large and small players. For each player
iAI let tðiÞAT be the type of i: the element of T to which i belongs. Each player i
observes a signal xi ¼ y þ nZi ; where each Zi is distributed according to an atomless
density ftðiÞ with support contained in the interval ½12; 12 : Signals are conditionally
independent.18
Let At denote the action set of players of type t: Let OðiÞ be the set of types of
player i’s opponents.19 If a type-t player i chooses action ai AAt ; her payoff is
ut ðai ; ai ; yÞ; ai ¼ ðat̂ Þt̂AOðiÞ denotes the action proﬁle of i’s opponents, where at̂ is
the cumulative distribution function of actions chosen by type-t̂ players.20 This
implies that opponents of a given type are interchangeable: the c.d.f. of their actions
is all that player i cares about and all that the action proﬁle ai captures. We assume
players always play measurable action proﬁles (those that can be expressed as a
vector of c.d.f.’s). Note that all players of a given type have the same action set,
signal error distribution, and payoff function.21
Let Dut ðai ; âi ; ai ; yÞ ¼ ut ðai ; ai ; yÞ  ut ðâi ; ai ; yÞ: Let us write ai Xâi if actions
are weakly higher under ai than under âi : if at̂ ðcÞpât̂ ðcÞ for each opposing type
t̂AOðiÞ and for all c: For any tAT; we deﬁne the distance jat  ât j to be the largest
difference in actions between players with the same rank in the two distributions.22
We make the same assumptions A1–A5 on payoff functions as in the ﬁnite player,
where ai is now understood to be the collection of opponents’ cdfs deﬁned above
and we replace each ui with utðiÞ and each Dui with DutðiÞ :23 Note that in this case,
18
If there is a continuum of players of type t; we assume that the realized distribution of the error terms
ðZi ÞiAt in this type is given by ft with probability one.
19
It is equal to T unless tðiÞ is a singleton, in which case OðiÞ ¼ T  tðiÞ:
20
That is, at̂ ðcÞ is the proportion of type-t̂ agents who play actions less than or equal to c: If t̂ is a
singleton fjg; then at̂ ðcÞ equals one if j’s action is no greater than c and zero otherwise.
21
Agents of different types can also be identical.
22
That is,

jat  ât j ¼ supfk: for all ai AAt ; either at ðai þ kÞpât ðai Þ or ât ðai þ kÞpat ðai Þg:
23

In A2, ða1 ; y; aI Þ and ða% 1 ; y; a% I Þ become ðai ÞiAI and ða% i ÞiAI ; respectively. Condition (b) in
%
%
%
Assumption A5 becomes: for each y there is a K2 such that for all ai ; âi ; ai ; and âi ;
X
jat  ât j:
jDutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; ai ; yÞ  DutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; âi ; yÞjpK2 jai  âi j
tAOðiÞ

20

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

assumption A5 now has bite even in ﬁnite action games, since in this case there exist
pairs of opponents’ action proﬁles that are different but arbitrarily close.
The generalizations of Theorems 1 and 2 are as follows:
Theorem 5. GðnÞ has an essentially unique strategy profile surviving iterative
strict dominance in the limit as n-0: In this profile, all players of a given type
play the same increasing, pure strategy. More precisely, there exists an increasing
pure strategy profile ðsnt ÞtAT such that if, for each n; sn is a strategy profile that
survives iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ; then limn-0 sni ðxi Þ ¼ sntðiÞ ðxi Þ for almost all
xi AR:
For any e > 0 and n > 0; let Qðe; nÞ be the set of parameters y for which
the surviving strategy proﬁles in GðnÞ do not all prescribe that players play e-close
to the same pure strategy Nash equilibrium of some complete information game
whose payoff parameter is e-close to y: More precisely, Qðe; nÞ is the set of
parameters y for which there is no Nash equilibrium action proﬁle aA tAT At ; of the
complete information game with payoffs ðut ð ; y0 ÞÞtAT for some y0 A½y  e; y þ e ;
such that for every strategy ðsni ÞiAI surviving iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ;
jsni ðyÞ  atðiÞ jpe for all i:
Theorem 6. In GðnÞ in the limit as n-0; for almost all payoff parameters y; players
play arbitrarily close to some pure strategy Nash equilibrium of the complete
information game with payoffs ut ð ; y0 Þ for some y0 that is arbitrarily close to y: More
precisely, for any e > 0 there is a n% > 0 such that for any non% ; Qðe; nÞ is contained in a
finite union of closed intervals of R whose measure is less than e:24

8. Concluding remarks
8.1. Contagion arguments
Our limit uniqueness argument generalizes the ‘‘infection’’ arguments of Carlsson
and van Damme [5] and Morris et al. [20]. (A precursor to this literature is
Rubinstein [25].) However, providing a general argument for the case of many
actions requires a signiﬁcant extension of that logic. The intuition is most closely
related to results in Burdzy, Frankel, and Pauzner [3] and its extension, Frankel and
Pauzner [9].25 These papers study dynamic models with complete information. There
is a continuum of players who switch between two actions. There are frictions, so
that players change actions asynchronously. Instantaneous payoffs depend on a

24
As in Theorem 2, the number of intervals in the union is ﬁnite and independent of n for any ﬁxed e:
This number may grow without bound as e shrinks to zero.
25
These papers are further extended in Frankel [8] and Levin [17].

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

21

parameter that follows a Brownian motion. This payoff parameter can reach
‘‘dominance regions’’ in which either action is strictly dominant.
These papers show that a unique equilibrium survives iterative dominance.
While the details are different,26 there is an analogy. In both cases, players play
against opponents in different but nearby ‘‘states’’: the value of the Brownian
motion at the moment when the opponent picks her action in those papers
and a player’s payoff signal in our paper. This local interaction gives rise to a
contagion effect that begins in the dominance regions and spreads throughout
the state space. The whole state space is affected because the interaction
structure is stationary: the probability of playing against an agent who sees
a state at given distance from one’s own state is independent of one’s
own state.27 Using this property, a translation argument as in Section 3
implies that the lowest and highest strategies surviving iterative dominance must
coincide.

8.2. Supermodular games
Our global game belongs to the class of supermodular games, ﬁrst studied by
Topkis [26] and further analyzed by Vives [28] and Milgrom and Roberts [18].28
Arguments in that literature establish (1) the existence of a largest and smallest
strategy proﬁle surviving iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies; (2) that
the largest and smallest strategy proﬁles are themselves equilibria; and (3) that those
largest and smallest strategies are monotonic in players’ signals. In global games, an
additional property holds: the largest and smallest strategy proﬁles coincide in the
limit as the signal errors vanish. Thus, there is a unique, monotonic equilibrium in
the limit.
In the light of this interpretation, it is natural to ask if there still exists exactly
one monotonic equilibrium when the supermodularity assumption (A1) is
weakened (see [1]). The answer may be yes, if a player’s best response rises when
her opponents switch from one monotonic strategy to a higher monotonic strategy.
This might be proved using something like the translation argument of Section 3.
(We have not checked this rigorously as it is beyond the scope of this paper).
However, without A1 we cannot show that iterative dominance yields a unique

26

In particular, the vertical axis in Burdzy, Frankel, and Pauzner [3] captures not the opponent’s action
but the population action distribution; the horizontal axis captures the current value of the Brownian
motion rather than the payoff signal; and the curves in that paper slope downwards rather than upwards.
27
In our paper, a player’s signal asymptotically has no effect on her posterior belief that her opponent’s
signal differs from hers by a given amount. In Burdzy, Frankel, and Pauzner [3], the stationarity of
Brownian motion implies that the payoff parameter a player sees when choosing her action has no effect
on the probability that she will meet an opponent who will have chosen his action when the payoff
parameter will have shifted by a given amount.
28
To be more precise, the uniform prior game is a supermodular game and our continuity arguments
establish that nonuniform prior games are close to the supermodular game when noise is small.

22

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

equilibrium; in particular, we cannot rule out the existence of other, non-monotonic
equilibria.29
8.3. Noise-independent selection and robustness
Our example in which noise-independent selection fails is for a two-player, fouraction symmetric payoff game. This example is minimal in the sense that noiseindependent selection must hold with two-players and symmetric payoffs if there are
fewer than four actions. However, noise-independent selection can fail in games with
three players if payoffs are asymmetric, as shown by Carlsson [4]. One application is
Corsetti, Dasgupta, Morris, and Shin [7], who study models of currency attacks in
which noise-independent selection can fail.
Our noise-independent selection results are related to work on the robustness of
equilibria to incomplete information (Kajii and Morris [15]). A Nash equilibrium of
a complete information game is robust to incomplete information if every incomplete
information game in which payoffs are almost always given by that complete
information game has an equilibrium in which that Nash equilibrium is almost
always played. Kajii and Morris showed that risk-dominant equilibria of two-player,
two-action games and, more generally, p-dominant equilibria of many-player, manyP
action games with Ii¼1 pi o1 are robust to incomplete information. Ui [27] has
shown that potential maximizing action proﬁles are robust to incomplete
information.30 The global games introduced by Carlsson and van Damme [5] and
studied in this paper represent a different way of adding an intuitively small amount
of incomplete information about payoffs. However, one can show that if a complete
information game has a robust equilibrium, then that equilibrium must be the noiseindependent selection. The sufﬁcient conditions for noise-independent selection in
this paper are, in fact, also sufﬁcient for robustness to incomplete information (see
Morris and Ui [24]).

Acknowledgments
We thank Itzhak Gilboa and seminar participants at the University of California,
Berkeley, the Harvard-MIT Theory Workshop, John Hopkins University, Princeton
University, Tel Aviv University, the University of Pennsylvania, the Eighth World
29
Morris and Shin [23] show that among binary action symmetric payoff continuum player games, a
single crossing property on payoffs and a monotone likelihood ratio property on signals implies the
existence of a unique monotonic equilibrium. However, there is no guarantee that there do not exist
nonmonotonic equilibria. The bank run game of Goldstein and Pauzner [11] belongs to this class. By
assuming that noise is uniformly distributed, Goldstein and Pauzner [11] are able to show the existence of a
unique equilibrium, which is monotonic, but their argument does not show that the game is dominance
solvable.
30
In the absence of strategic complementarities, the potential maximizing action proﬁle actually satisﬁes
a slightly weaker notion of robustness to incomplete information.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

23

Congress of the Econometric Society, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
for helpful comments.

Appendix
We ﬁrst prove Theorems 5 and 6, for the continuum player extension of Section 7.
Our main Theorems 1 and 2 follow as special cases of these results.
Proof of Theorem 5. The proof has two parts. In the ﬁrst (Lemma 3), we consider a
simpliﬁed game in which a player’s prior over y is uniform over some very large
interval that includes ½y; y% ; and her payoff depends directly on her signal rather than
%
on y: Because of the prior,
if a player’s signal is not in a dominance region, then her
posterior over the difference between her signal and those of other players is
independent of her signal, so we can show that a unique (up to discontinuities),
increasing strategy proﬁle survives iterative strict dominance even without taking the
signal error scale factor n to zero. The argument generalizes the translation argument
used in the intuition.
In the second part of the proof, we show that the original game ‘‘converges’’
to the simpliﬁed one as the signal errors shrink. That is, a player’s posterior
over the differences between her signal and those of other players becomes
approximately independent of her own signal (Lemma 4). Moreover, in the
limit it does not matter whether a player’s payoffs depends on her signal or on y
since these become arbitrarily close. As a result, the strategy proﬁles surviving
iterative dominance in the original and simpliﬁed games converge to each other
(Lemma 5).
For each type tAOðiÞ; let zt be the realized c.d.f. of normalized differences between
signals of type-t players and the signal of i: zt ðcÞ is the proportion of players jAt for
x x
whom j n i pc:31 Let Zi be the set of all vectors of the form ðzt ÞtAOðiÞ : Let
*ptðiÞ ðzjxi ; nÞ be player i’s density over zAZi in the game GðnÞ given i’s signal xi and
the scale factor n:
The simpliﬁed game is deﬁned as follows. Let the state y be drawn uniformly from
some large interval that includes ½y  n; y% þ n and let player i’s payoff depend on her
signal xi instead of the state. Thus% utðiÞ ðai ; ai ; xi Þ is player i’s payoff if action proﬁle
ðai ; ai Þ is chosen and she observes signal xi : Note that with a uniform prior on
states, player i’s posterior p* tðiÞ ðzjxi ; nÞ is independent of her signal xi and the scale
factor n; so we can write it as ptðiÞ ðzÞ:
Lemma A1 shows that each game Gn ðnÞ has an essentially unique strategy proﬁle
surviving iterative strict dominance. In this proﬁle, all players of a given type play
essentially the same pure, increasing strategy.

31
zt depends on the realizations of players’ signals and is thus a random variable. For example, if t is a
x x
singleton type fjg; then zt ðcÞ equals one if j n i pc and zero else.

24

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Lemma A1. For each n > 0 there exists a weakly increasing strategy profile s * n such
that any profile s that survives iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ must (a) be weakly
n
increasing in xi for all i and (b) agree with si* except perhaps at the (at most countably
n
many) signals xi at which si* ðxi Þ is discontinuous. Moreover, s * n prescribes the same
strategy for all players of a given type.
Proof. For any player i of type t; let Zt be the set of all possible vectors z ¼
ðzt ÞtAOðiÞ of normalized differences between i’s opponents signals and her own signal.
For any pure strategy proﬁle s ¼ ðst ÞtAT (which, as the notation indicates, prescribes
the same strategy st for all players of type t), let ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ denote the opposing
action distribution that a player i faces if she sees the signal xi ; others play according
to s; z is the vector of normalized signal differences, and n is the scale factor. More
precisely, ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ ¼ ðat ÞtAOðiÞ where at ðcÞ is the proportion of players jAt for
whom the prescribed action st ðxi þ nzj Þ is no greater than c:
Let BRt ðs; xi Þ be the set of optimal actions for a player i of type t who sees signal xi
and whose opponents play according to the pure strategy s ¼ ðst̂ Þt̂AT :
BRt ðs; xi Þ ¼ arg max Ept ½ut ðai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi Þ ;
at AAt
R
where for any function hðzÞ; Ept ½hðzÞ ¼ zAZi pt ðzÞhðzÞ dz: Note that by assumption
A4 and the theorem of the maximum, BRt must be upper hemicontinuous in xi ; even
if s is discontinuous. (Because of the noise in the signals, i’s posterior over the
distribution of opponents’ actions changes continuously in her signal.)
We ﬁrst do iterated dominance to establish a lower bound on the actions players
can choose for each signal. We deﬁne a sequence of strategy proﬁles sk  ðskt ÞtAT for
k ¼ 0; 1; y as follows. Let s0 be the constant proﬁle in which all players play 0 for
any signal. Let skþ1 be the smallest best response to sk : skþ1
ðxi Þ ¼ min BRt ðsk ; xi Þ:
t
k
Assumptions A1 and A3 imply that (i) st ðxi Þ is weakly increasing in xi for all ðt; kÞ
and (ii) skt ðxi Þ is weakly increasing in k for all ðt; xi Þ: Assumption A2 implies skt ðyÞ ¼
%
0 and skt ðy% Þ ¼ 1 for all types t and for kX1: Let s be deﬁned by st ðxi Þ ¼
%
%
limk-N skt ðxi Þ: A player i seeing signal xi must choose an action that is at least
stðiÞ ðxi Þ: By induction, st is weakly increasing. Since BRt is upper hemicontinuous
%
%
and (by an induction argument) min BRt ðs; xi Þ is weakly increasing in xi ; st ðxi Þ must
%
%
be left continuous.
We next construct an upper bound on players’ actions. For any lAR; let ŝ be the
right-continuous version of s (i.e., ŝt ðxi Þ ¼ limek0 st ðxi þ eÞ) and let sl ¼ ðslt ÞtAT be
%
%
the translation of ŝ to the left by l: for all t and xi ; slt ðxi Þ ¼ ŝt ðxi þ lÞ: Let l0 be large
enough that, for all t; slt 0 ðyÞ ¼ 1; since sl0 is weakly increasing, a player of type t with
signal xi will never play an action that is greater than slt 0 ðxi Þ: Now let lk be the
smallest number such that no type-t player who expects others to play according to
slk1 will ever play above slt k :
lk ¼ inf fl : slt ðxi ÞXmax BRt ðslk1 ; xi Þ8t; xi g:

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

25

Assumptions A1 and A3 imply that lk is weakly decreasing in k: Let lN ¼
limk-N lk ; and denote s% ¼ slN : (Note that lN X0 since the iterations cannot go
beyond s:)
%
By construction,
a type-t player who sees signal xi will never play an action that
exceeds s%t : s%t ðxi ÞXmax BRt ðs%; xi Þ for all xi : We will show by contradiction that
lN ¼ 0: s% and s coincide. This means that the strategies in any proﬁle that survives
%
iterative dominance
in G n ðnÞ must be weakly increasing functions that agree with s at
%
all points of continuity. This will prove the lemma since a monotonic function can
have at most a countable number of discontinuities.
Claim A1. There is a player i and a signal xni such that s%i ðxni  eÞomax BRi ðs%; xni þ eÞ
for all e > 0:
Proof. Since s% is the limit of the iterations from the left, for all e > 0 there is a player
i and a signal xi such that s%i ðxi  eÞomax BRi ðs%; xi Þ: (Otherwise let e0 be such that
there is no i and xi for which s%i ðxi  e0 Þomax BRi ðs%; xi Þ; deﬁne l0N ¼ lN  e0 : The
limit of the iterations must be no greater than l0N ; a contradiction.) Since the number
of players is ﬁnite and each s%i is weakly increasing, there must be a particular player i
such that for all e > 0; s%i ðxi ðeÞ  eÞomax BRi ðs%; xi ðeÞÞ for some xi ðeÞ: Deﬁne x0i ðeÞ ¼
xi ð2eÞ  e; we know that for all e > 0; s%i ðx0i ðeÞ  eÞomax BRi ðs%; x0i ðeÞ þ eÞ: Since for
all e; x0i ðeÞA½y; y% ; there is a convergent subsequence of x0i ðeÞ as e-0; let xni be the
limit. For all e > 0; s%i ðxni  eÞomax BRi ðs%; xni þ eÞ: (Why: we can take e0 small
enough that s%i ðx0i ðe0 Þ  e=2Þomax BRi ðs%; x0i ðe0 Þ þ e=2Þ and jx0i ðe0 Þ  xni joe=2; hence,
s%i ðx0i ðe0 Þ  e=2ÞXs%i ðxni  eÞ and max BRi ðs%; x0i ðe0 Þ þ e=2Þpmax BRi ðs%; xni þ eÞ:) &
We claim that if lN > 0; then for some e > 0;
max BRi ðs%; xni þ eÞp max BRi ðŝ; xni þ lN  eÞ
p ŝi ðxni þ lN  eÞ ¼ s%i ðxni  eÞ:
Only the ﬁrst inequality is nontrivial. In the two cases (i.e., i getting signal xni þ e and
expecting others to play s% versus i getting signal xni þ lN  e and expecting others to
play ŝ), the distributions of action proﬁles i expects to see become identical as e-0:
Let
âi ¼ max BRi ðŝ; xni þ lN  eÞ;
a% i ¼ max BRi ðs%; xni þ eÞ:
We must show that a% i pâi : We know that âi is strictly better than any higher action if
i gets signal xni þ lN  e and expects others to play ŝ: for all ai > âi ;
Ept ðDutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; ai ðŝ; x̂i ; z; nÞ; x̂i ÞÞo0 where x̂i ¼ xni þ lN  e: We claim that
Ept ðDutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; ai ðs%; x% i ; z; nÞ; x% i ÞÞo0 where x% i ¼ xi þ e: (This will imply a% i pâi :)
Since the action distributions played by i’s opponents in the two situations differ by
the order of e while the payoff parameter differs by lN  2e; assumptions A3 and A5

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

26

imply:
Ept ðDutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; ai ðs%; x% i ; z; nÞ; x% i ÞÞ  Ept ðDutðiÞ ðai ; âi ; ai ðŝ; x̂i ; z; nÞ; x̂i ÞÞ
p  K0 ðai  âi ÞðlN  2eÞ þ K2 ðai  âi ÞjTjoðeÞ
e-0

- K0 ðai  âi ÞlN

which is negative if lN > 0: (jTj denotes the number of types in the game and oðeÞ
denotes a term that is on the order of e:) This establishes that lN ¼ 0:
When all action sets are ﬁnite, assumption A2 can be replaced by A20 by use of the
following claim.
Claim A2. Suppose all action sets are finite and assume A1; A20 ; A3; A4; and A5:
Let a ¼ ðat ÞtAT and a% ¼ ða% t ÞtAT be the unique Nash equilibrium strategy profiles of the
%
%
underlying complete information game for payoff parameters yoy and for y > y% ;
respectively.32 There is a constant K such that for any increasing %pure equilibrium
strategy profile s of G n ðnÞ that assigns the same strategy to all players of a given type, a
must be played for all signals below y0 ¼ y  Kn and a% must be played for all signals%
%
%
above %y0 ¼ y% þ Kn:
Proof. For any positive integer n; consider the signal vector given by xi ¼ y  nn for
all i: Since a is the unique Nash equilibrium when payoffs equal y  nn; the%only way
%
that s can prescribe
something other than a at this signal vector %is if some player i is
uncertain (expecting s to be played) about %the action played by one of her opposing
types: if, for some tAOðiÞ; st ðxÞ takes on more than one value for signals
xA½y  ðn þ 1Þn; y  ðn  1Þn :33 Since s is monotonic and each action set is ﬁnite,
this %conditionP
can% hold for at most a ﬁnite set of positive integers n: In particular, if
0
xoy ¼ y  n tAT jAt j then st ðxÞ ¼ at for all t: Likewise, a% must be played for
P
%
%
%
signals above y% 0 ¼ y% þ n tAT jAt j: &
We now iterate from above to obtain an upper bound on the set of equilibrium
strategies. For all t; let ŝ0t ðxi Þ ¼ 1 for all xi AR and let skþ1
ðxi Þ ¼ max BRt ðsk ; xi Þ: Let
t
k
ŝ be deﬁned by ŝt ðxi Þ ¼ limk-N ŝt ðxi Þ: A player i seeing signal xi must choose an
action that is at most ŝtðiÞ ðxi Þ: By induction, ŝt is weakly increasing and since ŝ is a
best response to itself, it is an equilibrium of Gn ðnÞ: By Claim A2, under ŝ players
must play a for signals below y0 and a% for signals above y% 0 :
%
%
32

As implied by the notation, these unique equilibria must prescribe the same action for all players of a
given type. Else the players of a given type would be indifferent between two different actions. But then if
all switched to (say) the higher of these actions and we then performed iterative best response in the
complete information game, we would (by A1) converge to a different Nash equilibrium in which all
players’ actions were weakly higher and some were strictly higher. This contradicts the assumption that
there is a unique Nash equilibrium.
33
Because of the bounded supports, player i knows that all other players’ signals will be within n of
xi ¼ y  nn:
%

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

27

For any lAR; let sl denote the translation of the right-continuous version of s to
%
the left by l: Let l0 be large enough that, for all t and signals xi ; slt 0 ðxi ÞXŝt ðxi Þ:
(l0 ¼ y% 0  y0 will sufﬁce.) Players cannot choose actions that lie above sl0 : The rest of
%
the proof proceeds as before: we iterate from the left using translations slk until we
reach a limit, and prove (using identical arguments) that this limit must equal s: &
%
Lemma A2 shows that as n-0; players’ posteriors over normalized signal
differences GðnÞ; *ptðiÞ ðzjxi ; nÞ; converge to the posteriors in G n ðnÞ: For any
probability measure m on Zi ; let Ce ðmÞ be the set of probability measures that
differ from m by no more than e for any subset of Zi :
(
)
Ce ðmÞ 

m0 : sup jmðSÞ  m0 ðSÞjpe :
SCZi

Lemma A2. For any e > 0 and compact interval B ¼ ½b0 ; b1 such that ½b0  n; b1 þ n
is contained in the interior of the support of f; there exists n% > 0 such that
*ptðiÞ ð jxi ; nÞACe ðptðiÞ ð ÞÞ for all xi AB and all np %n:
Proof. Denote
0
1 1 fðxi þ ny Þ
y A½2;2
rðnÞ ¼ sup
0 :
xi AB min 0
1 1 fðxi þ ny Þ
y A½2;2

max 0

Since the support of f includes ½b0  n; b1 þ n ; f has a strictly positive minimum
value over this interval. Since f is also continuous, max 0 1 1 fðxi þ ny0 Þ 
y A½2;2

0

miny0 A½1;1 fðxi þ ny Þ converges to 0 as n-0 uniformly for xi A½b; b : Hence,
22
0
1
max 0 1 1 fðxi þ ny0 Þ  min 0 1 1 fðxi þ ny0 Þ
y A½2;2
y A½2;2
A
rðnÞ ¼ sup @1 þ
min 0 1 1 fðxi þ ny0 Þ
xi AB
y A½2;2

-1 as n-0:
Since the support of each fi is contained in the interval ½12; 12 ; for all xi AB;
pi ðzÞ
pp* i ðzjxi ; nÞprðnÞpi ðzÞ:
rðnÞ
 
x y
If t is a singleton type fjg; let Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ ¼ ft j n : If t is a continuum type, let
Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ be the Dirac delta function [13, p. 276] that equals inﬁnity if zt is the
c.d.f. of normalized signal differences between the signals of type-t players and the
signal xi if the distribution of type-t signal errors is ft and the true parameter is y:
x x
Since zt ðcÞ is the proportion of players jAt for whom j n i pc or, equivalently, for
x y

0
whom j’s signal error j n is no greater than c þ xi y
n ; Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ ¼ N iff zt ðcÞ ¼


ft c þ xi ny for all c and Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ ¼ 0 otherwise. Letting y0 ¼ xi ny;

28

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ ¼ Gt ðzt ; y0 ; 0; 1Þ: By Bayes’s Rule,
x y Q
RN
i
Pr ðz&xi Þ
tAOðiÞ Gt ðzt ; y; xi ; nÞ dy
y¼N fðyÞfi
n
x y
¼
RN
*ptðiÞ ðzjxi ; nÞ ¼
i
Pr ðxi Þ
dy
y¼N fðyÞfi
n
RN
0
0 Q
0
0
tAOðiÞ Gt ðzt ; y ; 0; 1Þ dy
y0 ¼N fðxi þ ny Þfi ðy Þ
R
¼
:
N
0
0
0
y0 ¼N fðxi þ ny Þfi ðy Þ dy

ðA1Þ

ðA2Þ

Thus, for

Z any SCZi ;
Z




p
ðzjx
;
nÞ
dz

p
ðzÞ
dz
*
i
i
i


zAS
zAS


Z

1
1
p
pi ðzÞ dz max rðnÞ  1;
rðnÞ
zAS


1
pmax rðnÞ  1;
1 :
&
rðnÞ
Lemma A3 uses the above results to show that as the signal noise shrinks, players’
behavior in GðnÞ converges to the unique outcome of G n ðnÞ: Write sn (s%n ) for the left
(right) continuous version of s * n ; the essentially unique equilibrium of% the game G n ðnÞ:
By Lemma A1, sn and s%n each prescribes the same strategy for all players of a given type.
%
Lemma A3. For any e > 0; there exists n% > 0 such that for all npn% and any strategy
profile sn of GðnÞ surviving iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies,
s%ni ðxi þ eÞXsni ðxi ÞXsni ðxi  eÞ:
%
Proof. We ﬁrst reiterate some deﬁnitions from the proof of Lemma A1. For any
player i of type t; Zt is the set of all possible vectors z ¼ ðzt ÞtAOðiÞ of normalized
differences between i’s opponents signals and her own signal. For any pure strategy
proﬁle s ¼ ðst ÞtAT (which prescribes the same strategy st for all players of type t),
ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ is the opposing action distribution that player i faces if she sees the
signal xi ; others play according to s; and z is the vector of normalized signal
differences.
We begin with a claim.
Claim A3. Let s ¼ ðst ÞtAT be a weakly increasing strategy profile satisfying
Ept ½Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi Þ X0
for all iAI; xi AR and ai pst ðxi Þ (where t is the type of i).
Then, for any e > 0 and for any compact interval BCR; there exists d > 0; such that
Ep0t ½Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi þ eÞ > 0
for all iAI; p0t ACd ðpt Þ; xi AB and ai ost ðxi Þ:

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

29

Proof. For all d > 0 and p0i ACd ðpi Þ;
Ep0t ½Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi þ eÞ
(
)
ð1  dÞEpt ½Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi þ eÞ
X
þdDut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; 0i ; xi þ eÞ
"
# 9
8
>
>
Du
ðs
ðx
Þ;
a
;
a
ðs;
x
;
z;
nÞ;
x
þ
eÞ
t
t
i
i
i
i
i
>
>
>
>
>
=
< ð1  dÞEpt Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi Þ dz >
X
>
>
>
>
þð1  dÞEpt ½Dut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; ai ðs; xi ; z; nÞ; xi Þ
>
>
>
>
;
:
þdDut ðst ðxi Þ; ai ; 0i ; xi þ eÞ:
By A3, we can ﬁnd a constant K2 > 0 such that for all xi in the compact interval B;
the ﬁrst term is at least ð1  dÞK2 eðst ðxi Þ  ai Þ: The second term is at least 0, by the
premise of the lemma. By A5 there is a constant K3 such that the third term is at least
dK3 ðst ðxi Þ  ai Þ: Thus the sum is at least ðð1  dÞK2 e  dK3 Þðst ðxi Þ  ai Þ: This
d
oKK23e: &
expression must be positive (for all ai ost ðxi Þ) if we choose d such that 1d
By construction of s; we know that for all bXe; i ¼ 1; y; I and xi AR
%
Ept ½Dut ðst ðxi  bÞ; ai ; ai ðs; xi  b; z; nÞ; xi  bÞ X0
%
for all ai pst ðxi  bÞ: This implies (by Lemma A2 and Claim A3) that there exists *n
% all np*n; bXe and x AR;
such that for
i
 

b
X0
E *pt ð jxi ;nÞ Dut st ðxi  bÞ; ai ; ai ðs; xi  b; z; nÞ; xi 
2
%
for all Zai pst ðxZi  bÞ:34 This implies (changing
notation only) that


N
%
*ft ðz; yjxi ; nÞDut st ðxi  bÞ; ai ; ai ðs; xi  b; z; nÞ; xi  b
2
%
zAZi
y¼N
dz dyX0
for all ai pst ðxi  bÞ; where  Q
%
fðyÞfi xi y
t̂AOðiÞ Gt̂ ðzt̂ ; y; xi ; nÞ
n
*
xi y
ft ðz; yjxi ; nÞ ¼
RN
dy
n
y¼N fðyÞfi
is the density of ðz; yÞ given xi : Now if nob2 we have by assumption A3 that
Z
Z N
* t ðz; yjxi ; nÞDut ðst ðxi  bÞ; ai ; ai ðs; xi  b; z; nÞ; yÞ dz dyX0
f
%
y¼N
zAZi
ðA:3Þ
Assuming A2, Claim A3 implies this for xi  bA½y; y% : For xi  b not in this interval, the result holds
%
since st ðxi  bÞ must be either 0 or 1, depending on which is dominant at the payoff parameter xi  b:
%
Assuming A20 instead of A2, Claim A3 implies this for xi  bA½y0  *n; %y0 þ *n ; where y0 and y% 0 are deﬁned
%
%
near the end of the proof of Lemma A1. Below y0 ; a must be played; above y% 0 ; a% must be played. Thus,
%
changing the distribution of z leaves the integral unchanged.
34

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

30

for all ai ost ðxi  bÞ: Set np %n ¼ minf2e ; *ng: Consider the strategy proﬁle s0 where
%
s0t ðxi Þ ¼ st ðxi  bÞ: By Eq. (A.3), we know that, in GðnÞ; each player’s best response
%
0
to s is always at least s0 :
Since this is true for any bXe; this ensures that iterated deletion of strictly
dominated strategies (using translations of s as in the proof of Lemma A1), cannot
% (using a symmetric version of Claim
lead below snt ðxi  eÞ: A symmetric argument
%
A3, whose proof is analogous) gives the upper bound. &
Finally, we show that as the signal errors shrink, the essentially unique surviving
strategy proﬁle in the simpliﬁed game G n ðnÞ converges to a limit.
Lemma A4. There is a weakly increasing strategy profile s, which prescribes the same
strategy for all players of a given type, such that for any e > 0 there is a n% > 0 such that
for all non% and any strategy profile sn surviving iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ; the
maximum horizontal distance between sn and s is e: i.e., sni ðxi þ eÞ > si ðxi Þ > sni ðxi  eÞ
for all i and xi :
Proof. To prove this, we will show that the surviving proﬁles are a Cauchy sequence.
Fix e > 0 and consider any n0 ; n00 ; such that n% > n0 > n00 ; where n% will be speciﬁed later.
0
00
Let sn and sn survive iterative strict dominance in G n ðn0 Þ and G n ðn00 Þ; respectively.
(Note that these are equilibria of the corresponding games.) We will show that the
0
00
00
0
maximum horizontal distance between sn and sn is e: i.e., snt ðx þ eÞ > snt ðxÞ >
00
snt ðx  eÞ for all types t and signals x:
0
We will transform sn into a strategy proﬁle ŝ and then do iterative dominance in Gn ðn00 Þ
00
0
using translations of ŝ; and show that the limit (which bounds sn ) is within e of sn :
We deﬁned Q1 ðn; e0 Þ above to be such that in any surviving proﬁle in G n ðnÞ; each
player i who sees a signal that is not in Q1 ðn; e0 Þ can bound the action of each
opponent j within an intervalof length e0 : By Claim A5 below, there is a n% > 0 such
0

that if n0 on% ; Qn1 ¼ Q1 n0 ; 2e KK20I is contained in a ﬁnite union of closed intervals of the

form ½2nn0 ; 2ðn þ 1Þn0 (each of length 2n0 ) for integer n; the measure of this union is
less than 2e :
0
0
0
We transform sn into ŝ as follows. For signals x outside of Qn1 ; let ŝt ðxÞ ¼ snt ðxÞ:
0
For signals in any maximal interval35 ½z  d; z þ d in Qn1 ; we compress the segment
0
of sn horizontally by the ratio of n00 and n0 and patch the remaining gaps with a
constant action proﬁle. More precisely, for each signal xA½z  d; z þ d ; let:

ŝt ðxÞ ¼

35

8
>
<
>
:

0

00

0

00

snt ðz  dÞ if xpz  d nn0 ;

0
0
00
00
snt ðz þ ðx  zÞnn00 Þ if xA z  dnn0 ; z þ dnn0 ;
snt ðz þ dÞ if xXz þ dnn0 :
0

More precisely, ½z  d; z þ d is a union of contiguous intervals in Qn1 that is not contiguous to any
0
other interval in Qn1 :

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

31

We now perform iterative dominance in Gn ðn00 Þ using translations of ŝ from the
left, yielding an bound from the left on the proﬁles surviving iterative dominance in
the game. Suppose the iterations stop at a horizontal distance l to the left of ŝ: Let
this translation be sl : We ﬁrst assume that both that the action space is ½0; 1 and the
strategies surviving iterative dominance are continuous functions of players’ signals,
and the best response correspondence is always single valued. Later we consider the
general case. Under these assumptions, there is a type t and a signal x such that slt ðxÞ
00
equals BRnt ðsl ; xÞ; the best response to sl in the game G n ðn00 Þ for a type-t player with
signal x:
0
First suppose x þ leQn1 : This means that x corresponds to the part of sl that
was not altered in the construction of ŝ: In this case we show directly that the bound
0
sl is within a horizontal distance of e from sn : Suppose i got the signal x þ l in the
0
game G n ðn0 Þ and expected her opponents to play according to sn : Then she could
place each opponent j’s action within an interval Ij of length 2e KK20I : By construction, if
i gets signal x in Gn ðn00 Þ and expects others to play proﬁle sl ; she can place each
opponent’s action within the same interval Ij : (By Claim A5 below, each interval in
0
Qn1 is of measure at least 2n0 and n00 on0 : Thus, by construction of sl ; the signals at
which an opponent j plays actions outside of Ij can also be ruled out if i sees signal
x:) This means that in the two cases (i.e., i getting signal x þ l in Gn ðn0 Þ and
0
expecting others to play sn versus i getting signal x in G n ðn00 Þ and expecting
others to play sl ), i expects approximately the same opponents’ actions; more
precisely, each action differs by no more than 2e KK20I ; the length of Ij : By Assumptions
A3 and A5, the change in ut following a unit change in any opposing type’s
action is no more than K2 while the change in ut following a unit change in y (which
in G n equals the player’s signal) is at least K0 : Thus, for slt ðxÞ to be a best response a
player who expects sl ; the difference l in signals between the two cases must be less
than e:
0
0
Now suppose x þ lAQn1 : Denote the maximal interval in Qn1 in which this signal
00
00
lies by ½z  d; z þ d : We can assume WLOG that x þ lA½z  dnn0 ; z þ dnn0 ; otherwise,
x must be on a horizontal part of sl ; but the iterations cannot have been blocked at
0
such a point. We now consider the signal y ¼ z þ ðx þ l  zÞnn00 : This is the reverse
0
translation of x þ l and has the property that slt ðxÞ ¼ snt ðyÞ: We will argue that the
action distribution seen in each case is almost the same. A player seeing y and
0
playing against sn in G n ðn0 Þ knows that her opponents’ signals will be in the interval
Y ¼ ½y  n0 ; y þ n0 : We split Y into two parts. For opponents’ signals in the part of
0
Y that lies in ½z  d; z þ d ; the actions prescribed by sn are, by construction,
identical to the actions prescribed by sl at the corresponding signals in Gn ðn00 Þ: For
opponents’ signals lying outside, these signals lie in an interval of length at most n0
0
that is contained in the complement of Qn1 : We know that for each type t; the actions
0
prescribed by snt for such signals all lie in an interval It of size at most 2e KK20I : By
construction of sl ; for each player of type t; the actions prescribed by sl for the

32

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

corresponding signals in Gn ðn00 Þ are also in It : Thus, the above argument implies that
00
0
jx  yjoe: sn cannot anywhere lie more than e to the left of sn : This completes the
proof for the continuous case.
We now explain how the proof changes in the general case. The construction and
0
iterations are as before. However, we let sn be the right continuous version of the
essentially unique surviving proﬁle in G n ðn0 Þ: This ensures that its transformation ŝ is
also right continuous, so the limit sl is an upper bound on strategies chosen in
00
G n ðn00 Þ: We also can no longer assume that slt ðxÞ ¼ BRnt ðsl ; xÞ for some t and x: We
can say only that (a) sl lies above its highest best response: a type-t player who sees
signal x will never play an action that exceeds the right continuous version of slt ; and
(b) sl cannot be translated to the right without falling below its highest best response
somewhere: more precisely, as in Claim A1, there must be a type t and a signal x such
00
that slt ðx  e0 Þomax BRnt ðsl ; x þ e0 Þ for all e0 > 0:36
For e0 E0; let x  e0 in the game G n ðn00 Þ with proﬁle sl correspond to y  e0 in
0
G n ðn0 Þ with proﬁle sn : players with these signals ﬁnd themselves at corresponding
points on the two action proﬁles and thus are prescribed to take the same action. We
claim that if l > e; then for e0 very small relative to l;
00

0

0

0

max BRnt ðsl ; x þ e0 Þpmax BRnt ðsn ; y  e0 Þpsnt ðy  e0 Þ ¼ slt ðx  e0 Þ:
Only the ﬁrst inequality is nontrivial. Between the two cases (i.e., a player getting
signal x þ e0 in Gn ðn00 Þ and expecting others to play sl versus a player getting signal
0
y  e0 in G n ðn0 Þ and expecting others to play sn ), the possible actions of each
opponent differ by no more than 2e KK20I þ oðe0 Þ: Let
0

0

a0t ¼ max BRnt ðsn ; y  e0 Þ;
00

alt ¼ max BRnt ðsl ; x þ e0 Þ:
We must show that alt pa0t : By deﬁnition, a0t is strictly better than any higher action if
0
a type-t player i gets signal y  e0 in G n ðn0 Þ and expects others to play sn : for all
0
at > a0t ; Ept ðDut ðat ; a0t ; ai ðsn ; y  e0 ; z; n0 Þ; y  e0 ÞÞo0; where the expectation is based
on the signal distribution in G n ðn0 Þ: We claim that a0t is also strictly better than any
higher action if a type-t player i gets signal x þ e0 in Gn ðn00 Þ and expects others to play
sl : for all at > a0t ; Ept ðDut ðat ; a0t ; ai ðsl ; x þ e0 ; z; n00 Þ; x þ e0 ÞÞo0: Since the possible
actions of each of i’s opponents differ by no more than 2e KK20I þ oðe0 Þ in the two
situations while the payoff parameter differs by at least l  2e0  e=2; assumptions

36

In the general case, the best response is a correspondence rather than a function.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

33

A3 and A5 imply:
Ept ðDut ðat ; a0t ; ai ðsl ; x þ e0 ; z; n00 Þ; x þ e0 ÞÞ
0

 Ept ðDut ðat ; a0t ; ai ðsn ; y  e0 ; z; n0 Þ; y  e0 ÞÞ
p  K0 ðat  a0t Þ ðl  2e0  e=2Þ þ K2 ðat  a0t ÞI



e K0
þ oðe0 Þ
2 K2 I



- K0 ðat  a0t Þðe  lÞ

e0 -0

which is negative if l > e: This proves the lemma. &
Theorem 5 follows immediately from this result and Lemmas A1, A3 and A4.

&

The following three claims were used in the proofs of Lemma A4 and will be used
in the proof of Theorem 6.
For any e > 0 and n > 0; let Q0 ðn; eÞ be the set of parameters y for there is some
n
strategy proﬁle sn * ¼ ðst * ÞtAT that survives iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ and
some strategy proﬁle sn ¼ ðsni ÞiAI that survives iterative strict dominance in GðnÞ for
n
which jst * ðyÞ  sni ðyÞj > e for some i of type t: (Unlike sn * ; sn has not been shown to
assign the same strategy to all players of a given type.)
Claim A4. For any e > 0 there is a n% > 0 such that for all non% ; Q0 ðn; eÞ is contained in
a union of at most 4jTj=e closed intervals of R; the total measure of the union is less
than e:
Proof. Let sn * and sn be any strategies surviving iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ
and GðnÞ; respectively. By Lemma A3, for any e0 > 0; there exists %n > 0 such that for
all npn% ;
s%nt ðy þ e0 ÞXsni ðyÞXsnt ðy  e0 Þ;
%
where t is i’s type and s%n and sn are, respectively, the right continuous and left
%
continuous versions of the essentially
unique surviving strategy proﬁle of G n ðnÞ: In
n*
addition, by Lemma A1, any s that survives in G n ðnÞ must be weakly increasing, so
n

s%nt ðy þ e0 ÞXst * ðyÞXsnt ðy  e0 Þ:
%
n

Thus, the absolute difference between sni ðyÞ and st * ðyÞ is bounded by s%nt ðy þ e0 Þ 
snt ðy  e0 Þ: We now divide the real line into intervals In ¼ ½ne0 ; ðn þ 1Þe0 for integral n:
% M be the set of such intervals for which there is a yAI and a player i of some
Let
0
n
type t for whom, for some sn * and sn surviving iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ
n
and GðnÞ; jsni ðyÞ  st * ðyÞjXe: Clearly, Q0 ðn; eÞDM0 : By the preceding argument,
s%nt ðy þ e0 Þ  snt ðy  e0 ÞXe; so s%nt ððn þ 2Þe0 Þ  snt ððn  1Þe0 ÞXe: By deﬁnition of s%n and
% 0 Þ for any z > z0 ; so
%
sn ; snt ðzÞXs%nt ðz
% % n
ðA:4Þ
s%t ððn þ 2Þe0 Þ  s%nt ððn  2Þe0 ÞXe:

34

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

Since s%nt is weakly increasing and in ½0; 1 for each t; the set of integers n and types t
for which (A.4) holds is at most 4jTj=e: Thus, M0 is a ﬁnite set and the total measure
of M0 is at most 4jTje0 =e: For this measure to be less than e; it sufﬁces to take
e0 oe2 =4jTj: &
Claim A5 shows that when signal errors are small, for most signals players
can closely approximate what other players will do. For any n > 0 and
e > 0; let Q1 ðn; eÞ be the set of parameters y such that after removing
strategies that do not survive iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ; there are types
tat̂ such that conditional on a player of type t getting signal y; the set of
actions a type-t̂ player might take are not contained in an interval of length e:
Each player j who sees a signal that is not in Q1 ðn; eÞ can bound the action
of each opponent i within an interval of length e: Claim A5 shows that Q1 ðn; eÞ
is of measure less than e for small enough n: This claim is also used in the proof of
Lemma A4.
Claim A5. For any e > 0 there is a n% > 0 such that for all non% ; Q1 ðn; eÞ is contained in
a union of at most 5jTj=e intervals of the form ½2nn; ð2n þ 2Þn for integral n; the total
measure of the union is less than e:
Proof. Since each signal error is at most n=2 and since s%n and sn are upper and lower
bounds on the strategies that survive iterative strict dominance% in G n ðnÞ; a necessary
condition for y to be in Q1 ðn; eÞ is that for some type t; s%nt ðy þ nÞ  snt ðy  nÞ > e:
% M be the
Divide the real line into intervals In ¼ ½2nn; ð2n þ 2Þn for integral n: Let
1
set of such intervals for which there is a yAIn and a type t for which s%nt ðy þ nÞ 
snt ðy  nÞ > e: Clearly, Q1 ðn; eÞDM1 : By deﬁnition of s%n and sn ; snt ðzÞXs%nt ðz0 Þ for any
% %
z% > z0 ; so
s%nt ðð2n þ 4ÞnÞ  s%nt ðð2n  1ÞnÞ > e:

ðA:5Þ

Since s%nt is weakly increasing and in ½0; 1 for each t; the set of integers n and types t
for which (A.4) holds is at most 5jTj=e: Thus, M1 is a ﬁnite union of intervals whose
total measure is at most 5jTjn=e: For this measure to be less than e; it sufﬁces to take
noe2 =5jTj: &
The next claim uses the prior one to show that for almost all payoff parameters y;
strategies that survive iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ must prescribe at y that
players play close to some Nash equilibrium of some complete information game
with payoff parameter close to y: More precisely, let Q2 ðe; nÞ be the set of parameters
y for which there is no action proﬁle a ¼ ðat ÞtAT with the following two properties:
(1) for some y0 A½y  e; y þ e ; the complete information game with payoffs
ðut ð; y0 ÞÞtAT has a Nash equilibrium in which all players of type t play at ; (2) for
n
every strategy s * n surviving iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ; jst* ðyÞ  at jpe for
all types t:

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

35

Claim A6. For any e > 0 there is a n% > 0 such that for all non% ; Q2 ðn; eÞ is contained in
a finite union of closed intervals of R whose measure is less than e: The number of
intervals in the union can depend on e but not on n:
Proof. Fix e > 0: Recall that Q1 ðn; ZÞ is the set of signals x such that, after
removing strategies that do not survive iterative strict dominance in G n ðnÞ;
there are types tat̂ such that conditional on a type-t player getting signal x; the
set of actions type-t̂ players choose are not contained in an interval of length Z:
By Claim A5, for any Z > 0 there is a %nZ > 0 such that for all no %nZ ; Q1 ðn; ZÞ is
contained in a ﬁnite union of closed intervals whose measure is less than Z: But for
any Z;
Q2 ðn; eÞ ¼ ½Q2 ðn; eÞ-Q1 ðn; ZÞ , ½Q2 ðn; eÞ-QC
1 ðn; ZÞ ;

ðA:6Þ

C
where QC
1 ðn; ZÞ is the complement of Q1 ðn; ZÞ: Every signal x in Q2 ðn; eÞ-Q1 ðn; ZÞ has
the property that on getting it, each player knows to within Z what players of all
types will do in Gn ðnÞ (since xAQC
1 ðn; ZÞ) yet there is no Nash equilibrium ðat ÞtAT of
the complete information game with payoff parameter yA½x  e; x þ e such that
each at is e-close to the action prescribed for type t in the essentially unique
equilibrium of G n ðnÞ at the signal x:
We will show that for ﬁxed e > 0; there is an Z% e such that for ZpZ% e ; the set
Q2 ðn; eÞ-QC
Ze ; eg and n ¼ %nZ ; we
1 ðn; ZÞ is empty for any n: Thus, by setting Z ¼ min f %
ensure that (a) for all no %n; Q1 ðn; ZÞ (and thus Q2 ðn; eÞ-Q1 ðn; ZÞ) is contained in a
ﬁnite union of closed intervals whose measure is less than e; and (b) since ZpZ% e ; the
set Q2 ðn; eÞ-QC
1 ðn; ZÞ is empty. By (10), this will prove Claim A6.
Suppose instead that the set Q2 ðn; eÞ-QC
1 ðn; ZÞ is nonempty for arbitrarily small Z;
where n can depend on Z: This means that there are arbitrarily small positive Z’s such
that for some y; even though in G n ðnÞ each player i with signal y has the utility
function utðiÞ ð; yÞ and best responds to a belief that each opponent j’s action is in
some interval of length Z that contains j’s true action (while follows from
n
yAQC
1 ðn; ZÞ), the action proﬁle the players play in G ðnÞ is not e-close to any Nash
equilibrium of the game with payoff parameter y0 A½y  e; y þ e (which is the
meaning of yAQ2 ðn; eÞ). Let Z0 > Z1 > ? be a sequence of such Z’s that converges to
zero. For each Zk take some yk AQ2 ðn; eÞ-QC
1 ðn; Zk Þ and consider the action proﬁle
n
k
*
ðat ÞtAT ¼ ðst ðyk ÞÞtAT : By construction, each of these action proﬁles differs by at
least e from any Nash equilibrium. Since each type’s action space is compact and
each yk must lie in the compact region ½y; y% ;37 there is a subsequence of the Zk ’s such
%
that the corresponding sequence ðak ; yk Þ converges to some limit ðaN ; yN Þ: By
continuity of the payoff functions (axiom A4), each action aN
t is a best response if a

If the action spaces are ﬁnite, axiom A2 is replaced by the weaker A20 so yk may not lie in ½y; y% : But by
%
Claim A2, since any strategy proﬁle surviving iterative strict dominance in Gn ðnÞ is an equilibrium of
Gn ðnÞ; it must prescribe that agents play Nash equilibria of the underlying complete information game for
any ye½y  Kn; y% þ Kn : Since each yk is in Q2 ðn; eÞ; each yk must lie in a compact interval (in
%
½y  Kn; y% þ Kn ), which is all the proof requires.
%
37

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

36

type-t player knows her opponents are playing according to aN and the payoff
parameter is yN : Thus, aN is a Nash equilibrium of the underlying complete
information game when the payoff parameter is yN : But then for high enough k; ak
is e-close to the Nash equilibrium aN of the complete information game with payoff
parameter yN ; which itself must be e-close to yk : Thus, ðak ; yk Þ does not satisfy the
condition assumed of it.38 &
Proof of Theorem 6. Theorem 6 follows immediately from Claims A4–A6 since
Qðe; nÞCQ0 ðe=2; nÞ,Q2 ðe=2; nÞ: &
Proof of Theorem 3. Let the actions be 0; 1=3; 2=3; and 1; t so that a strategy proﬁle
takes the form
8
0 if xoc1 ;
>
>
>
< 1 if c pxoc ;
1
2
sðxÞ ¼ 32
>
if c2 pxoc3 ;
>
>
:3
1 if c3 px:
A player observing signal c1 will assign probability 12 to her opponent choosing action
0; some probabilities l and m to her opponent choosing actions 13 and 23; respectively,
and probability 12  l  m to her opponent choosing action 1: A player observing
signal c2 will assign probability 12  l to her opponent choosing action 0; probability
l to her opponent choosing action 13; some probability Z to her opponent choosing 23;
and probability 12  Z to her opponent choosing action 1: A player seeing signal c3
will assign probability 12 to her opponent playing 1; Z to her opponent choosing 23;
some probability n to her opponent choosing 13; and probability 1  Z  n to her
opponent choosing 0: Hence, each proﬁle gives rise to four unknowns, l; m; Z; and n;
as claimed.
We now present a speciﬁc counterexample with four actions, in which the
equilibrium selected in the limit depends on the noise. Let I ¼ 2; A1 ¼ A2 ¼
f0; 13; 23; 1g and let GðnÞ and ĜðnÞ be two games satisfying the assumptions of Section
2; these two games are identical except that in GðnÞ; Z1 and Z2 are distributed
according to the density
f ðZÞ ¼ 1
on the interval ½12; 12 ; in ĜðnÞ; Z1 and Z2 are distributed according to the density
ˆ
fðZÞ ¼ 2  4jZj
38

We thank Itzhak Gilboa for suggesting this proof.

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

37

on the interval ½12; 12 : Note that under a uniform prior on y; the resulting symmetric
distributions of z ¼ Z1  Z2 have support ½1; 1 and densities
pðzÞ ¼ 1  jzj;
8
2
>
< 2ð1 þ zÞ
#pðzÞ ¼ 1  2z2
>
:
2ð1  zÞ2

if  1pzp  12;
if  12pzp12;
if

1
2pzp1:

Assume that uð ; yn Þ ¼ gn ð Þ; where gn is given by the following symmetric
matrix:

One may verify that this is a game of strategic complementarities, with payoffs
quasiconcave in own actions, since gni ðai þ 13; aj Þ  gni ðai ; aj Þ is strictly decreasing in ai
and strictly increasing in aj :
Let strategy proﬁle ŝ½k be deﬁned by

ŝi ½k ðxi Þ ¼

8
0
>
>
>
<1
3
2
>
>
>3

:

1

if xi ok  14;
if k  14pxi ok;
if kpxi ok þ 14;
if k þ 14pxi :

Lemma A5. Let the interaction structure be given by #p: There exists e# > 0 and d# > 0
# yn þ d# and payoffs are always given by uð ; yn Þ; the best
such that if yA½yn  d;
response to strategy profile ŝ½k is less than or equal to ŝ½k þ #e :
Proof. If player 1 observes x1 ; she believes that x2  x1 is distributed according to #p:
If she believes that her opponent is following strategy ŝ2 ½k ; her conjectures over her

38

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

opponents’ actions are the following:

One may verify that if player 1 observes signal k  14 and has payoffs given by
uð ; yn Þ; then she strictly prefers action 0 to action 13 (since
1
23
17
1
19
2ð344Þ þ 96ð64Þ þ 96ð456Þ þ 12ð854Þ ¼  4 o0). Similarly, if player 1 observes signal
k and has payoffs given by uð ; yn Þ; she strictly prefers action 13 to action 23 (since
25
23
23
25
25
96ð600Þ þ 96ð200Þ þ 96ð400Þ þ 96ð415Þ ¼ 96o0) and if player 1 observes signal
n
k þ 14 and has payoffs given by uð ; y Þ; she strictly prefers action 23 to action 1: By
continuity, these strict preferences will be maintained for signals in a small
neighborhoods of those cutoff points and for payoffs in a small neighborhood of
uð ; yn Þ: &
Now consider the game ĜD ðn; yn Þ; which is like Ĝn ðnÞ; except that the payoff
functions are replaced by
8
>
u ða; yÞ
if ypy;
>
< i %
%
n
D
ui ða; yÞ ¼ ui ða; y þ #dÞ if ypypyn þ #d;
>
%
>
: u ða; y% Þ
#
if yXyn þ d:
i

Corollary A1. In the game ĜD ðn; yn Þ; any strategy s satisfying iterated deletion of
strictly dominated strategies satisfies spŝ½yn þ d#  n ; thus si ðxi Þ ¼ 0 for all xi pyn þ
d#  2n:
Proof. By induction, verify that if strategy proﬁle s survives k þ 1 rounds of deletion
of strictly dominated strategies, then spŝ½max ðy  n þ k#e; yn þ d#  nÞ : &
%
Now we have:
Lemma A6. If sn is the essentially unique equilibrium of Ĝn ðnÞ; then sni ðxi Þ ¼ 0 for all
xi pyn þ d#  n:

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

39

But now let strategy proﬁle s½k be deﬁned by
8
7
0 if xi ok  25
;
>
>
>
< 1 if k  7 px ok;
i
25
si ½k ðxi Þ ¼ 32
7
>
if kpxi ok þ 25
;
>
>
:3
7
1 if 25pk þ xi :
Lemma A7. Let the interaction structure be given by p: There exists e > 0 and d > 0
such that if yA½yn  d; yn þ d and payoffs were always given by uð ; yn Þ; the best
response to strategy profile s½k is more than or equal to s½k  e :
Proof. If player 1 observes x1 ; she believes that x2  x1 is distributed according to p:
If she believes that her opponent is following strategy ŝ2 ½k ; her conjectures over her
opponents’ actions are the following:

7
One may verify that if player 1 observes signal k  25
and her payoffs are given by
n
uð ; y Þ; then she strictly prefers action 13 to action 0 (since
1
301
203
121
83
2 ð344Þ þ 1250 ð64Þ þ 1250 ð456Þ þ 1250 ð854Þ ¼ 625 > 0). Similarly, if player 1 observes
n
signal k and her payoffs are given by uð ; y Þ; she strictly prefers action 23 to action 13
7
and if player 1 observes signal k þ 25
and her payoffs are given by uð ; yn Þ; she strictly
2
prefers action 1 to action 3: By continuity, these strict preferences will be maintained
for signals in a small neighborhoods of those cutoff points and for payoffs in a small
neighborhood of uð ; yn Þ: &

But now mimicking the above argument, we have:
Lemma A8. If sn is the essentially unique equilibrium of G n ðnÞ; then sni ðxi Þ ¼ 1 for all
xi Xyn  d þ n:
Proof of Lemma 1. Consider any player i: In the continuous action space case, for
any dA½0; ci ;
0 > vðani þ d; ani Þ  vðani ; ani ÞXmi ðani Þðgi ðani þ d; ani Þ  gi ðani ; ani ÞÞ;
so gi ðani þ d; ani Þogi ðani ; ani Þ: By own-action quasiconcavity, gi ðani ; ani Þ exceeds
gi ðai ; ani Þ for any ai > ani : An analogous argument shows the same for any ai oani : A
similar proof applies in the case of ﬁnite actions. &

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

40

Proof of Theorem 4. For each iAI; let gi ðai ; ai Þ be a payoff function with the
%
property that action 0 is strictly dominant. Fix some yn AR and consider the global
n
game G nn ðn; y Þ with uniform prior, some noise structure ðfi ÞiAI ; and payoff
functions
(
ui ðai ; ai ; xi Þ ¼
%

ui ðai ; ai ; yn Þ
gi ðai ; ai Þ
%

if xi Xyn ;
if xi oyn :

Suppose that action proﬁle an ¼ ðani ÞiAI is an LP-maximizer of the complete
information game g ¼ ðui ð ; yn ÞÞiAI and that this game is own-action quasiconcave.
For now, ﬁx n ¼ 1: We will be interested in left continuous, weakly increasing
strategy proﬁles in which no player i ever chooses an action above ani : (The same
argument works for right-continuous strategies.) Any such strategy can be
represented by a function zi : ½0; ani -R where zi ðai Þ is the highest signal at which
player i plays an action less than or equal to ai :
We wish to deﬁne the unique left continuous best response to strategy proﬁle z in
the game G nn ðn; yn Þ: Note that the assumption that an is an LP-maximizer (and thus,
by Lemma 1, a strict Nash equilibrium) and the strategic complementarities
assumption imply that the best response to z will itself involve each player i choosing
an action less than or equal to ani : We write bðzÞ ¼ ðbi ðzÞÞiAI for this best response.
To give an explicit expression for bi ðzÞ; ﬁrst write szi i for player i’s strategy written
in standard notation, i.e., szi i ðxi Þ ¼ min fai : zi ðai ÞXxi g: (It is correct to take the min
because of left continuity.) For any player i; let ðxi ; xi Þ denote the vector of signal
realizations. Let Xi be the space of all signal vectors xi : Write szii ðxi Þ ¼
z

z

ðsj j ðxj ÞÞjai and sz ðxÞ ¼ ðsj j ðxj ÞÞjAI :
If player i observes xi oyn ; action 0 is dominant. If she observes xi Xyn ;
her payoff to choosing action ai ; if she believes her opponents are following
strategies zi ; is
Z

Z
yAR

xi AXi

gi ððai ; szii ðxi ÞÞ; xi Þ

Y

!
fj ðxj  yÞ dxi dy:

jai

Thus an action less than or equal to ai is a best response if
(

(Z

Z
gi

min arg max
a0i AAi

Y
jai

yAR

!

xi AXi

)

 

a0i ; szii ðxi Þ ; xi
)

fj ðxj  yÞ dxi dy pai :

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

41

Recall that zi ðai Þ is the largest value of xi at which an action less than or equal to ai is
played under i’s strategy. Thus bi ðzÞðai Þ is the maximum of yn and
(

(

Z

Z

max xi : min arg max
a0i AAi

Y

yAR

!

)

xi AXi

gi ðða0i ; szii ðxi ÞÞ; xi Þ

)

fj ðxj  yÞ dxi dy pai :

jai

Now deﬁne39
V ðzÞ ¼

Z

Z an

Z an
I

1

?
y

a1 ¼0

ðvðaÞ  vðan ÞÞ dFI ðzI ðaI Þ  yÞ?dF1 ðz1 ða1 Þ  yÞ dy:

aI ¼0

Intuitively, V ðzÞ is the expected value of vðaÞ  vðan Þ; conditional on yXyn  12: The
expectation is taken with respect to an improper prior, so this expression will only be
well deﬁned if each player plays ani for high enough signals; i.e., if zi ðani Þ is ﬁnite for
all i: Otherwise V ðzÞ will equal N; since vðaÞovðan Þ for all aaan :
Now consider the sequence z0 ; z1 ; y; where z0i ðai Þ ¼ yn for all i and ai A½0; ani ; and
zn ¼ bðzn1 Þ for all n > 0: An induction argument shows that this is an increasing
sequence: zni ðai ÞXzn1
ðai Þ for all n; i; and ai : Moreover, V ðz0 Þ is ﬁnite and negative.
i
We will show that V ðzn Þ is increasing in n: Thus, V ðlimn-N zn Þa  N: This implies
that in the limiting strategy proﬁle limn-N zn ; each player i plays ani if her signal is
high enough.
Let z ¼ zn for any nX0: Deﬁne dF i ðai jyÞ to be
dFI ðzI ðaI Þ  yÞ ?dFiþ1 ðziþ1 ðaiþ1 Þ  yÞ dFi1 ðbðzÞi1 ðai1 Þ  yÞ
? dF1 ðbðzÞ1 ða1 Þ  yÞ:
This is the probability of the action proﬁle ai at the state y if players i  1 and under
play according to bðzÞ while players i þ 1 and above play according to z: We separate
39

In order to accommodate action sets that can include both intervals and points, the integrals are
S
interpreted as follows. Let Ai ¼ M
m¼1 ½bm ; cm where MX1 can be inﬁnity and the intervals are disjoint.
R an
(Isolated points are represented by setting bm ¼ cm :) We deﬁne aii¼0 f ðai Þ dgðai Þ to equal
M
X

Z cm

m¼1

ai ¼bm

f ðai Þ dgðai Þ þ

M
1
X

f ðbmþ1 Þ½gðbmþ1 Þ  gðcm Þ :

m¼1

One can verify that the standard integration by parts formula holds using this deﬁnition:
Z an
Z an
i
i
f ðai Þ dgðai Þ ¼ f ðani Þgðani Þ  f ð0Þgð0Þ 
gðai Þ df ðai Þ:
ai ¼0

ai ¼0

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

42

V ðbðzÞÞ  V ðzÞ into a telescopic sum and then integrate each summand by parts:
Z (Z a n
I Z
X
i
V ðbðzÞÞ  V ðzÞ ¼
ðvðai ; ai Þ  vðan ÞÞ d
i¼1

"

ai ¼0

ai

y

#)
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
dF i ðai jyÞ dy
Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
Z Z (
I
X
ðvðai ; ai Þ  vðan ÞÞ
¼
i¼1

"



y

ai

#)ani


 dF i ðai jyÞdy

Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
a ¼0
(Z n " i
#
Z
Z
I
a
X
i
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ

ai ¼0

ai

y

i¼1

Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
)

ðvðai ; ai Þ  vðai  dai ; ai ÞÞ

dF i ðai jyÞ dy:

Since no action above ani is played in either strategy proﬁle, bðzÞi ðani Þ ¼ zi ðani Þ ¼ N;
so
(

"

#)ani


ðvðai ; ai Þ  vða ÞÞ


Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
ai ¼0
"
#
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
n
¼ ðvð0; ai Þ  vða ÞÞ
X0
Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
n

Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ

since an maximizes v and since bðzÞi ð0ÞXzi ð0Þ: Thus,
V ðbðzÞÞ  V ðzÞX 

I
X
i¼1

Z Z
y

ai

(Z

ani

ai ¼0

"

Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
)

½vðai ; ai Þ  vðai  dai ; ai Þ

#

dF i ðai jyÞ dy:

But for any ai and y; Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ  Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ is just the probability that a
signal is observed between zi ðai Þ and bðzÞi ðai Þ—the interval where under z player i
plays more than ai and her best response to z is to play something no greater than ai :
If instead players 1 through i  1 play according to bðzÞ; player i’s best response in
this interval is still no greater than ai by strategic complementarities. Therefore, by
own-action quasiconcavity, player i’s payoff, conditional on getting a signal in this

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

43

interval, must be weakly decreasing "in her own action:# for a0i AAi ; a0i pai ;
Z Z
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
½gi ðai ; ai Þ  gi ða0i ; ai Þ
dF i ðai jyÞ dyp0:
Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
y
ai
Since ai pani ; vðai ; ai Þ  vðai  dai ; ai Þpgi ðai ; ai Þ  gi ðai  dai ; ai Þ by the LPmaximizer condition. Thus,
V ðbðzÞÞ  V ðzÞ
I
X Z Z Z ani
X
½vðai ; ai Þ  vðai  dai ; ai Þ
i¼1

"

X

y

ai

ai ¼0

Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ

Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ
I
X Z Z Z an
i

i¼1

"

y

ai

ai ¼0

#
dF i ðai jyÞ dy
mi ðai Þ½gi ðai ; ai Þ  gi ðai  dai ; ai Þ

#
Fi ðbðzÞi ðai Þ  yÞ
dF i ðai jyÞ dy
Fi ðzi ðai Þ  yÞ

X0
as claimed.
This implies that for all i and ai A½0; ani ; zni ðai Þ converges to some ﬁnite upper
1
bound zN
i ðai Þ as n grows. Let ŝ be this upper bound written in standard notation
(i.e., ŝ1i ðxi Þ ¼ min fai : zN
i ðai ÞXxi g). This is the smallest strategy proﬁle surviving
iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies in G nn ð1; yn Þ; moreover, there exists
a c > 0 such that ŝ1i ðxi Þ ¼ ani for all i and xi Xyn þ c:
Changing n is equivalent to relabeling the game G nn ðn; yn Þ: Thus if we write ŝn for
the unique strategy proﬁle surviving iterated deletion of strictly dominated strategies
n
n
n
in Gnn ðn; yn Þ; we have ŝn ðxi Þ ¼ ŝ1 ðxi y
n Þ: This in turn implies that ŝi ðxi Þ ¼ ai for all
n
xi Xy þ nc:
But now if sn is the essentially unique equilibrium of G n ðnÞ; we have that sn Xŝn
(this is true because the game G n ðnÞ has everywhere higher best responses than the
game Gnn ðn; yn Þ). So we have:
Lemma A9. For all e > 0; there exists %n such that for all np %n; sni ðyn þ eÞXani :
A symmetric construction gives:
Lemma A10. For all e > 0; there exists %n such that for all np %n; sni ðyn  eÞpani :
These two lemmas imply that if sn is the left continuous limit of sn as n-0; then
sni ðyÞpani if yoyn and sni ðyÞXani if y > yn : By left continuity, sni ðyn Þ ¼ ani : This
proves the theorem. &

44

D.M. Frankel et al. / Journal of Economic Theory 108 (2003) 1–44

References
[1] S. Athey, Single crossing properties and the existence of pure strategy equilibria in games of
incomplete information, Econometrica 69 (2001) 861–890.
[2] R.J. Aumann, Mixed and behavior strategies in inﬁnite extensive games, in: M. Dresher, L.S.
Shapley, A.W. Tucker (Eds.), Advances in Game Theory, Annals of Mathematics Studies, Vol. 52,
Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1964.
[3] K. Burdzy, D. Frankel, A. Pauzner, Fast equilibrium selection by rational players living in a changing
world, Econometrica 69 (2001) 163–189.
[4] H. Carlsson, Global games and the risk dominance criterion, Working paper, University of Lund,
1989.
[5] H. Carlsson, E. van Damme, Global games and equilibrium selection, Econometrica 61 (1993)
989–1018.
[6] H. Carlsson, E. van Damme, Equilibrium selection in stag hunt games, in: K. Binmore, A. Kirman,
A. Tani (Eds.), Frontiers of Game Theory, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1993.
[7] G. Corsetti, A. Dasgupta, S. Morris, H.S. Shin, Does one soros make a difference?: A theory of
currency attacks with large and small traders, Working paper, 2001.
[8] D. Frankel, Shocks and Business Cycles, Working Paper, Cornell University, 2002.
[9] D. Frankel, A. Pauzner, Resolving indeterminacy in dynamic settings: the role of shocks, Quart. J.
Econom. 115 (2000) 283–304.
[10] I. Goldstein, Interdependent banking and currency crises in a model of self-fulﬁlling beliefs, Working
paper, Tel Aviv University, 2000.
[11] I. Goldstein, A. Pauzner, Demand deposit contracts and the probability of bank runs, Working
paper, Tel Aviv University, 2000.
[12] I. Goldstein, A. Pauzner, I. Goldstein, A. Pauzner, Demand deposit contracts and the probability of
bank runs, Working paper, Tel Aviv University, 2001.
[13] M.D. Greenberg, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1998.
[14] J. Harsanyi, R. Selten, A General Theory of Equilibrium Selection in Games, MIT Press, Cambridge,
1988.
[15] A. Kajii, S. Morris, The robustness of equilibria to incomplete information, Econometrica 65 (1997)
1283–1309.
[16] Y. Kim, Equilibrium selection in N-person coordination games, Games Econom. Behavior 15 (1996)
203–227.
[17] J. Levin, A note on global equilibrium selection in overlapping generations games, Working paper,
Stanford University, 2001.
[18] P. Milgrom, J. Roberts, Rationalizability, learning, and equilibrium in games with strategic
complementarities, Econometrica 58 (1990) 1255–1277.
[19] D. Monderer, L. Shapley, Potential games, Games Econom. Behavior 14 (1996) 124–143.
[20] S. Morris, R. Rob, H.S. Shin, p-Dominance and belief potential, Econometrica 63 (1995) 145–157.
[21] S. Morris, H.S. Shin, Unique equilibrium in a model of self-fulﬁlling currency attacks, Amer.
Econom. Rev. 88 (1998) 587–597.
[22] S. Morris, H.S. Shin, Coordination risk and the price of debt, Yale Cowles Discussion Paper No.
1241, 1999.
[23] S. Morris, H.S. Shin, Global games: theory and applications in: M. Dewatripont, L. Hansen, S.
Turnoksky (Eds.), Advances in Economic Theory and Econometrics: Proceedings of the Eighth
World Congress of the Econometric Society, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, forthcoming.
[24] S. Morris, T. Ui, Generalized potentials and robust sets of equilibria, Working paper, 2001.
[25] A. Rubinstein, The electronic mail game: strategic behavior under almost common knowledge, Amer.
Econom. Rev. 79 (1989) 385–391.
[26] D. Topkis, Equilibrium points in nonzero-sum n-person supermodular games, SIAM J. Control
Optim. 17 (1979) 773–787.
[27] T. Ui, Robust equilibria of potential games, Econometrica 69 (2001) 1373–1380.
[28] X. Vives, Nash equilibria with strategic complementarities, J. Math. Econom. 9 (1990) 305–321.

