American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings 2016, 106(5): 592–596
http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.p20161047

Bayesian Persuasion in Coordination Games†
By Itay Goldstein and Chong Huang*
­egime-change games have been studied
R
widely in the economic literature in the contexts of bank runs, currency attacks, political
revolutions, and others. Usually, agents need
to coordinate an attack against the s­tatus quo:
once sufficiently many agents attack, the regime
changes and agents who were attacking benefit
from their attack; otherwise, the regime stays
and agents who were attacking it have to bear
a cost.
An important angle of coordination games is
the transmission of information from the policymaker, or the defender of the ­status quo, to the
agents who have to make a decision whether to
attack the regime. The policymaker can attempt
to change the information available to agents
to increase the likelihood of the survival of the
regime. In this paper, we present a model where
the policymaker attempts to transmit information in this spirit. Specifically, we study a model
where the policymaker can commit to abandon
the regime automatically (before agents choose
whether to attack or not) if the fundamentals
determining the strength of the regime are below
a certain threshold. The benefit of committing
to abandon the regime more often is that, conditional on the regime not being automatically
abandoned, agents update their information
to account for the fact that the fundamentals
are above the threshold and so their inclination to attack decreases. The disadvantage is
that it directly increases the likelihood that the
regime will not survive (since it is automatically
abandoned).

Analyzing this problem we show that the policymaker finds it optimal to commit to abandon
the regime often enough such that when agents
see that the policymaker did not abandon it they
choose not to attack. Hence, the policymaker
chooses to maximize the benefit out of the informational transmission channel from the committed policy. At the same time, the policymaker
has no additional benefit in committing to abandon the regime beyond that point as it will cause
too frequent abandonment without additional
information benefits. The commitment ability
of the policymaker is key here. We show that
without commitment ability, the policymaker
ends up abandoning automatically less often,
but this triggers more attacks, such that overall
the regime survives less often.
The analysis has implications for various settings. Consider the currency attack model studied
in Morris and Shin (1998), where a central bank
tries to maintain a fixed exchange rate regime,
but is subject to speculative attacks from traders in the foreign exchange market. If the central
bank commits ex ante to abandon the regime
whenever the fundamentals are sufficiently
weak, then seeing the regime being maintained,
speculators update positively and the attack
becomes less likely. Similarly, in the context of
bank runs, as in Goldstein and Pauzner (2005),
the bank may like to design a policy whereby
investments are liquidated if their fundamentals
are relatively weak. The bank may choose to do
so more often than is ­ex post desirable for the
purpose of deterring runs when fundamentals
are even stronger.
Our paper contributes to the vast literature
of coordination games, and in particular global
games that are used in our model. This literature goes back to Carlsson and van Damme
(1993) and has been applied and extended in
contexts like currency attacks (Morris and Shin
1998), bank runs (Goldstein and Pauzner 2005),
and others. Specifically, our paper is related to
other papers that study endogenous information
in global games, such as Angeletos, Hellwig,

* Goldstein: University of Pennsylvania Wharton
School, 3620 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104 (e-mail:
itayg@wharton.upenn.edu); Huang: Paul Merage School
of Business, University of California, Irvine, 4293 Pereira
Drive, Irvine, CA 92697 (e-mail: chong.h@uci.edu). We
are grateful to Laura Veldkamp and participants at the 2016
ASSA Meetings for helpful comments and suggestions.
†
Go to http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.p20161047 to visit
the article page for additional materials and author disclosure statement(s).
592

VOL. 106 NO. 5

Bayesian Persuasion in Coordination Games

and Pavan (2007) and Huang (2015). In these
papers, agents get information endogenously
from the failures of previous attacks. In our
paper, the endogenous information is provided
by the policymaker who designs it strategically
to affect the likelihood of failure.
Other papers have analyzed the attempts of
policymakers to affect the information available
to agents in global games models. For example,
Angeletos, Hellwig, and Pavan (2006) analyze
the central bank’s interest rate policy as a tool to
signal the strength of the currency, and Edmond
(2013) studies how a dictator can manipulate the
private information available to agents considering a revolution. However, these policies are
costly, which reduces the policymaker’s incentives to employ them. The policy we study here
is much simpler, as it is just about direct information transmission. In equilibrium, it ends up
having no cost, as the policymaker abandons
the regime in cases in which it would have
been abandoned anyway following an attack.
Unlike in these other papers, however, our
policy requires commitment on the side of the
policymaker.
The design of information in our paper is in
the spirit of the growing literature of Bayesian
persuasion following Kamenica and Gentzkow
(2011). The automatic regime change policy
can be viewed as an information transmission
mechanism, which generates two “straightforward signals”: abandoning the ­status quo automatically corresponds to a recommendation of
attacking, and maintaining the ­status quo corresponds to a recommendation of not attacking.
Our paper contributes to this literature by analyzing the information design in a regime change
game, which features coordination among multiple receivers who have heterogeneous private
information.1

A recent paper by Goldstein and Huang (2016) also
analyzes information design when receivers have coordination incentives and heterogeneous information. Their model
deals with credit rating policies and how they affect investors’ decisions to invest in the firm’s bonds and the firm’s
investment decisions. The feedback effect to the firm’s
investment leads to a much more complex analysis with very
different equilibrium outcomes.
1

593

I. A Regime Change Game with Bayesian
Persuasion

There are three dates, ​t = 0, 1, 2​. A regime has
two possible outcomes: the ­status quo (​R = 0​)
and the alternative (​R = 1​). The strength of the
s­tatus quo is described by ​θ ,​  which is drawn
from the prior distribution ​ (​ ¯θ​, ​α​​  −1​)​at date 1.
Such a prior distribution is common knowledge
at date 0.
As in other r­egime-change models, there is
a continuum of agents who try to trigger the
regime change. Agents are uniformly distributed over [​0, 1]​and indexed by i​.​ At date 2,
conditional on the regime still being in place
(more on this below), each agent ​i​has to choose
between two actions: attack the s­tatus quo
(​​ai​​​  = 1​) or refrain from attacking (​​ai​​​  = 0​).
Agents make their choices simultaneously.
Denote by ​A​the total measure of agents attacking, the regime will change from the ­status quo
to the alternative following the attack, if and
only if ​A ≥ θ​.
The strength of the ­status quo, ​θ​ , is unknown
to the agents when they make a decision whether
to attack or not. However, before making a decision at date 2, any agent i​​observes a private
signal ​​xi​​​  = θ + ​ξi​​​​  , where ​​ξi​​​  ∼  (0, ​β​​  −1​)​ is
independent of ​θ​and independent across agents.
As in standard r­egime-change games, we consider the case that ​β​is sufficiently large.
At the end of date 2, the agents’ payoffs realize. If an agent does not attack, he will get the
payoff ​0​for sure. If an agent attacks, his payoff
depends on whether the regime changes: if the
­status quo is abandoned, the agent will receive
a payoff ​1 − c​; but if the status quo remains
in place, the agent will get a payoff ​−c​. Here,​
c ∈ (0, 1)​is the cost of attacking.
The new ingredient we add to this standard
r­egime-change framework is to allow the policymaker, who is in charge of the regime, to
commit at date 0 to an automatic ­regime-change
policy at date 1 (prior to the coordination game
described above). Specifically, after observing
the realization of ​θ​at date 1, the policymaker
will abandon the s­tatus quo if and only if the
strength of the ­status quo, ​θ​ , is less than or equal
to a threshold ​y.​ If ​θ > y​ , the policymaker will
maintain the regime, but then the agents may
force abandoning the status quo based on the
coordination game at date 2, as described above.
For simplicity and when there is no confusion,

594

MAY 2016

AEA PAPERS AND PROCEEDINGS

we call an automatic regime change policy with
the threshold ​y​: “policy ​y​.”
The policymaker can commit on ​y​at date 0.
She chooses the policy to maximize the overall
probability of the survival of the ­status quo. This
policy acts like Bayesian persuasion because
the decision of the policymaker whether or not
to maintain the regime at date 1 sends a message to the agents about the strength of the
regime. Moreover, how informative this signal
is depends on the policy ​y​the policymaker commits to.
We are interested in a monotone perfect
Bayesian equilibrium. If there are multiple
equilibria in the coordination subgame at date
2, we select the one with the largest measure
of agents attacking. That is, different from the
“­sender-preferred perfect Bayesian equilibrium”
selected by Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011),
we consider the “policymaker least preferred
perfect Bayesian equilibrium.” So, the policymaker will choose a policy knowing that for any
policy she chooses agents will coordinate on
the worst possible outcome for her. Otherwise,
if we consider the policymaker’s preferred
equilibrium, the coordination feature of the
model directly implies that the policymaker
will choose the policy y​ = 0​
. Essentially, by
abandoning the regime whenever attacking is a
dominant action, the policymaker eliminates the
l­ower-dominance region in ­global-games models, giving rise to an equilibrium where no one
attacks after seeing that the policymaker chose
to maintain the regime. While this is an interesting observation, demonstrating the potential
effect of the automatic regime change policy, it
is rather trivial. The literature on coordination
games often focuses on the bad outcomes, and
so we focus here on the least preferred perfect
Bayesian equilibrium.
II. Equilibrium Characterization

We now characterize the policy chosen by the
policymaker at date 0. We derive it by backward
induction. We start by analyzing the coordination game at date 2, following a committed policy ​y​and the ­status quo surviving at date 1 (i.e.,​
θ > y​ ).
Considering a monotone equilibrium, given
the agents’ strategy, the measure of agents
attacking is decreasing in the strength of the
s­tatus quo. Therefore, there must be a ​​θ​​  ∗​  ≥ y​  ,

such that the regime changes if and only if
​θ ≤ ​θ​​  ∗.​​ Consequently, maximizing the probability of the survival of the ­status quo is equivalent to minimizing ​​θ​​  ∗​​. The policymaker will
thus choose the optimal ​y​such that the regime
change threshold ​​θ​​  ∗​​ is minimized.
Now, thinking about agents’ decisions, we
know that the survival of the ­status quo at date
1 conveys to all agents that ​θ > y​. Agent ​i​ with
private signal ​​x​i​​​then forms a truncated normal
posterior belief about ​θ​ , which leads to the posterior belief of a regime change
_ α​  θ̅ ​  + β​x​​​

Φ​[​√α + β (
​​ _
​  α + β i ​  − ​θ​​  ∗​)​]​
____________________
 ​.​
	​1 − ​   
   
_ α​θ ̅ ​+ β​x​​​
i
Φ​[​√α + β (
​​ ​ _
​ 
−
y
​
)]​
α+β
Since such a posterior belief of regime change is
strictly decreasing in ​​x​i​​​  , agent ​i​will attack if and
only if ​x ≤ ​x​​  ∗​​. Here, ​​x​​  ∗​​is determined such that
an agent who observes ​​x​​  ∗​​is indifferent between
attacking and not attacking:
(1)

_ α​  θ̅ ​  + β​x​​  ∗​

Φ​[​√α + β (
​​ _
​  α + β ​  − ​θ​​  ∗​)​]​
____________________
 ​  − c = 0.​
​1 − ​   
   
_ α​ θ̅ ​  + β​x​​  ∗​
Φ​[​√α + β (
​​ _
​  α + β ​  − y)​]​

Given agents’ strategy, because the ­status quo
will be abandoned if and only if ​θ ≤ ​θ​​  ∗​​  , we have
_

(2)	​
A (​θ​​  ∗​)  = Φ​(​√β ​(​x​​  ∗​  − ​θ​​  ∗​))​  = ​θ​​  ∗​, ​

where ​Φ​is the cumulative distribution function
(cdf) of the standard normal distribution. That
is, at ​​θ​​  ∗​​ , the measure of agents attacking is just
the same as the strength of the ­status quo.
We solve ​​x​​  ∗​​as a function of ​​θ​​ ∗​​ from equation
(2) and substitute the latter into equation (1).
Then, the ­left-hand side of equation (1) becomes
a function of ​​θ​​  ∗.​​ We denote such a function by​
H (​θ​​  ∗​).​ As shown in Angeletos, Hellwig, and
Pavan (2007), when ​y ∈ (0, 1)​  , ​H (​θ​​  ∗​)  = 0​ has
at most finitely many solutions. The largest solution corresponds to the policymaker least preferred equilibrium, because the regime change
threshold is the highest. In addition, for any ​​θ​​  ∗​​  ,​
H​is strictly decreasing in ​y.​ Figure 1 illustrates
that increasing the committed policy from ​y′​ to ​​yˆ​
to ​y​  ′′, leads the ​H​function to keep moving down.
Importantly, when the policy is ​y​  ′, there are
two solutions to the equation ​H (​θ​​  ∗​)  = 0​  , and

Bayesian Persuasion in Coordination Games

θ̂

0

−c

y'

ŷ

y''

θ'

θ*

595

Survival probability

H

VOL. 106 NO. 5

̀

Figure 1. H Function

the larger solution, denoted by θ​′​, represents
the chosen equilibrium in the subgame. Hence,
when the policymaker commits to the policy ​y​  ′,
the regime change threshold is ​θ′ > y​′. When
the policy is ​y​  ′′, there is no solution to the equation ​H (​θ​​  ∗​)  = 0​ , and the subgame has a unique
equilibrium in which no agent attacks. Hence,
when the policymaker commits to the policy ​y​  ′′,
the regime change threshold is just ​y′​′. When the
policy is ​​yˆ ​ , the equation ​H (​θ​​  ∗​)   = 0​has a unique
solution ​​ˆθ​. Such a solution corresponds to the
equilibrium that is least preferred by the policymaker in the subgame.
Hence, thinking about the threshold below
which the regime is abandoned, we can see that
it is decreasing in ​y​as ​y​increases to ​​ˆy​ , and at that
point it makes a discrete jump down, and starts
increasing as ​y​continues to increase beyond ​​ˆy​.
This suggests that the policymaker would like
to set the committed policy just above ​​ˆy​ and as
close as possible to it. This creates a technical
difficulty, as there is no well defined equilibrium for the whole game: The policymaker will
not settle at any point above ​​yˆ ​,  as she always
wants to get closer to ​​ˆy​ (but not set the policy at ​​yˆ​
itself). To overcome this issue, we make a small
technical assumption that ​y​cannot be in a small
open interval ​(​ˆy​, ​y​​  ∗​)​. Formally:
Assumption 1: The policy ​y​must be in
	​​(−∞, ​yˆ ​]​∪ ​[ ​y​​  ∗​, +∞)​,​
where ​​yˆ ​ is the policy such that ​H (​θ​​  ∗​)  = 0​ has a
unique real solution ˆ​​θ​  , and ​​y​​  ∗​  ∈ (​ˆy​, ​θˆ ​)​.

ŷ

y*

θ̂

y

Figure 2. Survival Probability

With Assumption 1, Figure 2 below illustrates
the overall ­status quo survival probability as a
function of ​y.​ And the analysis of such a function leads to Proposition 1.
Proposition 1: Under assumption 1, and
under the assumption that the policymaker
l­east-preferred equilibrium is selected at the
coordination subgame, the policymaker chooses
to commit to the policy ​​y​​ ∗​​at date 0, and no
agent attacks at date 2 after the policymaker
maintains the regime at date 1.
Intuitively, the policy y​​ ​​ ∗​​achieves the optimal balance between the positive informational role of the policy and the negative direct
effect it has on the survival likelihood. The
threshold ​​y​​  ∗​​is high enough so that in case the
regime survives after date 1, agents are optimistic enough about ​θ​that they choose not to
attack. As a result, the regime survives the
overall game whenever its strength is above​​
y​​  ∗.​​ Alternatively, if the policymaker chose to
commit on abandoning the regime less often,
her maintaining the regime would not reveal
enough positive information to speculators and
would still trigger attacks such that the overall
probability of survival of the regime would drop.
At the same time there is no need to increase
the committed threshold above ​​y​​  ∗​​as this will
lead to abandoning the regime automatically
more often without additional informational
gain.

596

MAY 2016

AEA PAPERS AND PROCEEDINGS

III. The Benefit of Commitment

References

Without commitment, if all agents refrain
from attacking provided that the s­tatus quo
­survives at date 1, the policymaker, after observing ​θ ∈ (​0, ​y​​  ∗​] ,​​  will deviate to not abandoning
the s­tatus quo. Because agents cannot detect
such a deviation and thus do not attack, the policymaker’s deviation is obviously profitable.
Hence, the policy in the equilibrium characterized in Proposition 1 is not t­ime-consistent; it
requires the policymaker to have the ability to
commit. In Proposition 2, we characterize the
equilibrium policy when the policymaker cannot commit.

Angeletos, George-Marios, Christian Hellwig,
and Alessandro Pavan. 2006. “Signaling in a

Proposition 2: When the policymaker does
not have commitment ability, any ​y ≤ ​yˆ ​​ is an
equilibrium policy, but any ​y ≥ ​y​​  ∗​​cannot be an
equilibrium policy.
We can rank the equilibria when the policymaker cannot commit to a policy by the policymaker’s payoff. Since ​​θ​​  ∗​​is strictly decreasing
in ​y​when ​y ≤ ​ˆy​,  the policymaker obtains the
lowest regime change threshold ​​θˆ ​ in the equilibrium with the policy ​​yˆ ​. Then, because ˆ​​θ​  > ​y​​  ∗​​  ,
we can see that the policymaker can achieve a
higher survival probability if she has the ability
to commit. Intuitively, committing to abandon
the regime more often than is ­ex post optimal
conveys positive information about the strength
of the regime once the regime is maintained
and so prevents speculative attacks and limits
the likelihood that the regime will ultimately be
abandoned.

Global Game: Coordination and Policy Traps.”
Journal of Political Economy 114 (3): 452–84.

Angeletos, George-Marios, Christian Hellwig, and
Alessandro Pavan. 2007. “Dynamic Global

Games of Regime Change: Learning, Multiplicity, and the Timing of Attacks.” Econometrica 75 (3): 711–56.
Carlsson, Hans, and Eric van Damme. 1993.
“Global Games and Equilibrium Selection.”
Econometrica 61 (5): 989–1018.
Edmond, Chris. 2013. “Information Manipulation, Coordination, and Regime Change.”
Review of Economic Studies 80 (4): 1422–58.
Goldstein, Itay, and Chong Huang. 2016. “Credit
Rating Inflation and Firms’ Investment Behavior.” Unpublished.
Goldstein, Itay, and Ady Pauzner. 2005.
“Demand-Deposit Contracts and the Probability of Bank Runs.” Journal of Finance 60 (3):
1293–1327.
Huang, Chong. 2015. “Defending against Speculative Attacks: Reputation, Learning, and
Coordination.” Unpublished.
Kamenica, Emir, and Matthew Gentzkow. 2011.
“Bayesian Persuasion.” American Economic
Review 101 (6): 2590–2615.
Morris, Stephen, and Hyun Song Shin. 1998.
“Unique Equilibrium in a Model of Self-Fulfilling Currency Attacks.” American Economic
Review 88 (3): 587–97.

