Informational Autocrats
Sergei Guriev, Daniel Treisman

To cite this version:
Sergei Guriev, Daniel Treisman. Informational Autocrats. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 2019,
33 (4), pp.100-127. �10.1257/jep.33.4.100�. �hal-03878640�

HAL Id: hal-03878640
https://sciencespo.hal.science/hal-03878640v1
Submitted on 29 Nov 2022

HAL is a multi-disciplinary open access
archive for the deposit and dissemination of scientific research documents, whether they are published or not. The documents may come from
teaching and research institutions in France or
abroad, or from public or private research centers.

L’archive ouverte pluridisciplinaire HAL, est
destinée au dépôt et à la diffusion de documents
scientifiques de niveau recherche, publiés ou non,
émanant des établissements d’enseignement et de
recherche français ou étrangers, des laboratoires
publics ou privés.

Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY 4.0 - Attribution - International License

Journal of Economic Perspectives—Volume 33, Number 4—Fall 2019—Pages 100–127

Informational Autocrats

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

T

he model of dictatorship that dominated in the twentieth century was
based on fear. Many rulers terrorized their citizens, killing or imprisoning
thousands and deliberately publicizing their brutality to deter opposition.
Totalitarians such as Hitler, Stalin, and Mao combined repression with indoctrination into ideologies that demanded devotion to the state. They often placed barriers
between their citizens and the rest of the world with overt censorship, travel restrictions, and limits on international trade.
However, in recent years, a less bloody and ideological form of authoritarianism
has been spreading. From Hugo Chávez’s Venezuela to Vladimir Putin’s Russia,
illiberal leaders have managed to concentrate power without cutting their countries off from global markets, imposing exotic social philosophies, or resorting to
mass murder. Many of these new-style autocrats have come to office in elections and
managed to preserve a democratic facade while covertly subverting political institutions. Rather than jailing thousands, they target opposition activists, harassing and
humiliating them, accusing them of fabricated crimes, and encouraging them to
emigrate. When these autocrats kill, they seek to conceal their responsibility.
The emergence of such softer, nonideological autocracies was unexpected and
so far lacks a systematic explanation. How do the new dictators survive without using

■ Sergei Guriev is Professor of Economics, Sciences Po, Paris, France, and Research Fellow,
Centre for Economic Policy Research, London, United Kingdom. Daniel Treisman is Professor
of Political Science, University of California, Los Angeles, California, and Research Associate,
National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Their email addresses
are sergei.guriev@sciencespo.fr and treisman@polisci.ucla.edu.

For supplementary materials such as appendices, datasets, and author disclosure statements, see the
article page at https://doi.org/10.1257/jep.33.4.100.

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

101

the standard tools of twentieth-century authoritarians and, moreover, without the
traditional legitimacy or religious sanction that supported historical monarchs—or
even the revolutionary charisma of anticolonial leaders?
The key to such regimes, we argue, is the manipulation of information. Rather
than terrorizing or indoctrinating the population, rulers survive by leading citizens
to believe—rationally but incorrectly—that they are competent and ­public-spirited.
Having won popularity, dictators score points both at home and abroad by
mimicking democracy. Violent repression, rather than helping, would be counterproductive because it would undercut the image of able governance that leaders
seek to cultivate.
In this article, we document the changing characteristics of authoritarian states
worldwide. Using newly collected data, we show that recent autocrats employ violent
repression and impose official ideologies far less often than their predecessors did.
They also appear more prone to conceal rather than to publicize cases of state
brutality. By analyzing texts of leaders’ speeches, we show that “informational autocrats” favor a rhetoric of economic performance and provision of public services
that resembles that of democratic leaders far more than it does the discourse of
threats and fear embraced by old-style dictators. Authoritarian leaders are increasingly mimicking democracy by holding elections and, where necessary, falsifying
the results.
A key element in our theory of informational autocracy is the gap in political
knowledge between the “informed elite” and the general public. While the elite
accurately observes the limitations of an incompetent incumbent, the public is
susceptible to the ruler’s propaganda. Using individual-level data from the Gallup
World Poll, we show that such a gap does indeed exist in many authoritarian states
today. Unlike in democracies, where the highly educated are more likely than others
to approve of their government, in authoritarian states the highly educated tend to
be more critical. The highly educated are also more aware of media censorship than
their less-schooled compatriots.
The manipulation of information is not new in itself—some totalitarian leaders
of the past were innovators in the use of propaganda. What is different is how
rulers today employ such tools. Where Hitler and Stalin sought to reshape citizens’
goals and values by imposing comprehensive ideologies, informational autocrats
intervene surgically, attempting only to convince citizens of their competence. Of
course, democratic politicians would also like citizens to think them competent, and
their public relations efforts are sometimes hard to distinguish from propaganda.
Indeed, the boundary between low-quality democracy and informational autocracy
is fuzzy, with some regimes and leaders—say, Silvio Berlusconi of Italy or Cristina
Kirchner of Argentina—combining characteristics of both. Where most previous
models have assumed that formal political institutions constrain such leaders, we
place the emphasis on a knowledgeable elite with access to independent media.
At the same time, today’s softer dictatorships do not forswear repression
completely. Informational autocrats may use considerable violence in fighting
ethnic insurgencies and civil wars—as, in fact, do some democracies. They may

102

Journal of Economic Perspectives

also punish journalists as a mode of censorship (although they seek to camouflage
the purpose or to conceal the state’s role in violent acts). Such states can revert to
overt dictatorship, as may have happened after the 2016 coup attempt in Turkey,
where the regime of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan detained tens of thousands (Amnesty
International 2017). Still, as we show, the extent of mass repression in the regimes
we classify as informational autocracies is dwarfed by the bloody exploits of past
dictators.
The reasons for this shift in the strategies of authoritarian leaders are complex.
We emphasize the role of economic modernization, and in particular the spread of
higher education, which makes it harder to control the public by means of crude
repression. Education levels have soared in many nondemocracies, and the increase
correlates with the fall in violence. But other factors likely contribute. International
linkages, the global human rights movement, and new information technologies have
raised the cost of visible repression. Such technologies also make it easier for regime
opponents to coordinate, although they simultaneously offer new opportunities for
surveillance and propaganda. The decline in the appeal of authoritarian ideologies
since the end of the Cold War may also have weakened old models of autocracy.
Besides Chávez’s Venezuela and Putin’s Russia, other informational autocracies include Alberto Fujimori’s Peru, Mahathir Mohamad’s Malaysia, Viktor Orbán’s
Hungary, and Rafael Correa’s Ecuador. One can see Lee Kuan Yew’s Singapore as a
pioneer of the model. As we describe later, Lee perfected the unobtrusive management of private media and instructed his Chinese and Malaysian peers on the need
to conceal violence. Fujimori’s unsavory intelligence chief Vladimiro Montesinos
was another early innovator, paying million-dollar bribes to television stations to
skew their coverage (as discussed in this journal in McMillan and Zoido 2004).
As these examples suggest, informational autocracy overlaps with the new
populism. Chávez and Orbán are known for their populist rhetoric. Yet others—
such as Lee Kuan Yew and Mahathir Mohamad—hardly fit the populist template.
Informational autocrats and populists both seek to split the “people” from the
opposition-minded “elite”—although populists openly attack the elite, while
­informational autocrats make quiet efforts to co-opt or censor it. Populism is associated with a particular set of political messages, often involving cultural conservatism,
anti-immigrant animus, and opposition to globalization. By contrast, informational
autocrats are defined by a particular method of rule, which they can combine with
various messages. Some—like Putin and Lee—have been committed statists, unlike
the many populists who rage against unresponsive bureaucracy. While populists may
attack or circumvent the state-controlled media, informational autocrats almost
always view it as an essential tool.

Decreasing Violence
Most old-style dictators used violent repression, along with comprehensive censorship and sometimes ideological brainwashing, to control their citizens. Informational

Informational Autocrats

103

autocrats substitute a more sophisticated kind of information manipulation for overt
violence. Thus, if informational autocracies are replacing old-style dictatorships, we
should see a decrease over time in the brutality of authoritarian regimes.
A first measure of this is the changing proportion of nondemocracies experiencing state-sponsored killings. Here and throughout this article, we turn to the
widely used “Polity” data from the Virginia-based Center for Systemic Peace to distinguish “democracies” from “nondemocracies.” Specifically, the Polity IV dataset rates
countries on a 21-point scale from −10, “full autocracy,” to +10, “full democracy.” It
codes countries with a Polity2 score of 6 or higher as democracies.
To gain a better understanding of the dynamics of state violence, we created
a dataset on Authoritarian Control Techniques (Guriev and Treisman 2017).
We collected information on all leaders who first came to power after 1945 and
remained in power for at least five consecutive years in a nondemocracy. Using more
than 950 sources—reports of human rights organizations, government bodies, and
i­nternational agencies; historical accounts; newspapers; truth commission reports;
and other publications—we assembled estimates of the number of state political
killings under each leader, up to 2015. By state killings, we mean all killings of nonviolent individuals by agents of the state for political reasons, including assassinations,
executions of political prisoners or detainees, and all other deaths in custody of
political prisoners and detainees, even if the authorities blamed natural causes (in
such cases, the state is responsible for failing to provide adequate medical care). We
also include indiscriminate killings of protesters and other unarmed civilians by the
police, armed forces, or security personnel, as these often serve the political goal
of spreading terror. Finally, we interpret “political reasons” broadly and also count
protesters killed in demonstrations making economic demands and those killed
because of their religion (for example, persecuted sects). We do not include killings
in two-sided violence. While the availability and accuracy of data on state violence are
problematic and we do not attempt to make fine-grained comparisons, we believe
these data can reliably distinguish countries whose records of political violence differ
by orders of magnitude.1 For instance, we can distinguish dictators such as Uganda’s
Idi Amin, with political killings in the tens of thousands per year, from those such as
Argentina’s Jorge Videla, with killings in the thousands per year, and others such as
Uzbekistan’s Islam Karimov, with killings in the hundreds per year.
Figure 1 plots the trend in political killings. Because the incidence of violence
is uneven across years and the tenure of dictators varies, we compare the average
number of deaths per year under each leader. If sources give a range of estimates,
we take the midpoint. To show the dynamic, we classify by the decade in which the
leader first took power.

1
The main bias to fear is that the spread of global media and human rights movements in recent decades
will have rendered reporting progressively more comprehensive (Clark and Sikkink 2013; Ulfelder
2015). This factor should tend to lead to higher reporting over time of the violent incidents described
here, which means that the downward trends noted in this section may underestimate the true decline
in violence in these regimes.

104

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Figure 1
Political Killings per Year in Nondemocracies
70
60

Percent with more than 10 political killings per year
Percent with more than 100 political killings per year

Percent

50
40
30
20
10
0

1946–1949
(15)

1950s
(48)

1960s
(68)

1970s
(58)

1980s
(45)

1990s
(54)

2000s
(32)

Decade in which dictator took office (total number of dictators)
Source: Guriev and Treisman (2017).
Note: Only leaders who served at least five years in a nondemocracy (Polity2 < 6) are included. State
“political killings” are all killings of nonviolent individuals by agents of the state for political reasons,
including executions and all other deaths in custody of political prisoners or detainees, assassinations,
and indiscriminate killings of unarmed civilians by armed forces, security personnel, or police. Deaths in
two-sided violence are not included.

As Figure 1 shows, the frequency of state political killings has fallen sharply under
leaders taking office since the 1980s. Whereas 62 percent of dictators who started in
the 1980s (and lasted at least five years) had more than ten political killings per year,
that was true of only 28 percent of those who started in the 2000s. Not all early dictators were mass murderers: in each cohort, some were accused of few or no killings.
And not all recent autocrats are less violent: Bashar al-Assad of Syria, for instance, averaged nearly 1,500 estimated killings per year (up to 2015). But the balance has shifted.
Consider Cuba, for instance, where the estimated number of state killings under
Fulgencio Batista in the 1950s was in the thousands per year; under Fidel Castro
fewer than 100 per year; and under Raul Castro in the single digits. Or compare
Morocco’s King Hassan, who ruled from 1961 to 1999, under whom about 16 state
killings per year were reported, with his son, King Mohammed, who has ruled since
then and under whom less than one state killing per year has been reported.
We can exclude two possible explanations for the decrease. First, civil wars tend
to increase other kinds of violence, and civil wars have become rarer since the 1990s.
However, if we exclude from consideration all dictators whose terms overlapped with
civil wars or major insurgencies, the recent fall in violence is even more dramatic.
Second, dictators who came to power in the 2000s could not have ruled for as long

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

105

as some of their longest-lasting predecessors. We already normalize by the leader’s
tenure and include only those who survived at least five years. But if very long-lasting
leaders tended to commit atrocities late in their tenure, that might distort the pattern.
However, if we consider only leaders who served no more than ten years (and who
had left office by the end of 2015), again excluding civil war cases, the decrease in
killings is more dramatic than it appears in Figure 1: the proportion of nondemocracies with more than ten political killings per year now falls from a peak of 61 percent
for the 1970s cohort of dictators to 17 percent for the 2000s cohort.2
The pattern of reduced violence shows up in other measures as well. For
example, mass killings by the state can be defined as “any event in which the actions
of state agents result in the intentional death of at least 1,000 noncombatants from
a discrete group in a period of sustained violence” (Ulfelder and Valentino 2008).
The annual rate of such killings among nondemocracies peaked in 1992 at 33
percent but since then has fallen sharply, reaching 12 percent in 2013.3
We also collected data on the number of political prisoners and detainees
held under each authoritarian leader. We focus on the year in which the reported
number in jail for political reasons was highest because complete annual counts
were not available. We include detentions of antigovernment protesters if they were
held for more than a few hours.
As Figure 2 shows, the share of authoritarian leaders holding large numbers
of political prisoners or detainees has fallen markedly since the 1970s. Whereas
59 percent of those dictators who started in the 1970s (and lasted at least five
years) held more than 1,000 political prisoners in their peak year, this was true of
only 16 percent of those who came to office in the 2000s. The proportion of dictators holding more than 100 political prisoners fell from 88 percent to 44 percent.
Finally, although allegations of torture of political prisoners or detainees
remain extremely common, their frequency seems to have fallen. Seventy-four
percent of dictators taking office in the 2000s (and surviving at least five years)
were alleged by human rights groups, historians, or other sources to have tortured
political dissidents, compared with 96 percent of those starting in the 1980s. This
is doubly surprising given the increased scope of human rights monitoring, which
should make data for recent decades more comprehensive.4
These patterns suggest change across cohorts of autocrats. But individual
leaders may also adapt while in office. Anecdotal evidence illustrates how some
dictators have substituted less brutal techniques for open repression. Early on,

2
In online Appendix A, available with this article at the Journal of Economic Perspectives website, Figure A2
shows a graph similar to the one in the text, but excluding all dictators whose terms overlapped with civil
wars or major insurgencies. Figure A3 includes only leaders who served no more than ten years (and who
had left office by the end of 2015), again excluding civil war cases.
3
For an illustration of this point, see Figure A1 in online Appendix A.
4
Figure A4 in online Appendix A illustrates this pattern. We do not include torture of ordinary criminal
suspects, nor can we verify whether torture actually took place. However, the decreased frequency of
allegations suggests in itself that dictators are increasingly eager to avoid a reputation for abuses (as
discussed in the next section).

106

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Figure 2
Political Prisoners and Detainees in Dictator’s Peak Year
Percent with more than 100 political prisoners in peak year
Percent with more than 1,000 political prisoners in peak year

100

Percent

80

60

40

20

0

1946–1949
(15)

1950s
(48)

1960s
(68)

1970s
(58)

1980s
(45)

1990s
(54)

2000s
(32)

Decade in which dictator took office (total number of dictators)
Source: Guriev and Treisman (2017).
Note: Only leaders who served at least five years in a nondemocracy (Polity2 < 6) are included. “Political
prisoners” are individuals imprisoned or detained for more than a few hours by the state or its agents
for political—rather than normal criminal—reasons, whether or not they are tried and convicted. We
do not include those imprisoned for violent acts (as an example, ETA terrorists in Spain), but we do
include people imprisoned for seeking to overthrow the regime if, as best we can tell, they did not
commit violence, as well as people detained for more than a few hours for participating nonviolently in
antigovernment protests.

Singapore’s leader Lee Kuan Yew detained more than 100 political prisoners
(Amnesty International 1980), but later he pioneered low-violence methods. In an
interview, he recalled how, after the Tiananmen Square massacre, he had lectured
China’s leaders (as quoted in Elegant and Elliott 2005):
I said later to [then Premier] Li Peng, “When I had trouble with my sit-in
communist students, squatting in school premises and keeping their teachers
captive, I cordoned off the whole area around the schools, shut off the water
and electricity, and just waited. I told their parents that health conditions were
deteriorating, dysentery was going to spread. And they broke it up without any
difficulty.” I said to Li Peng, you had the world’s TV cameras there waiting for
the meeting with Gorbachev, and you stage this grand show. His answer was:
We are completely inexperienced in these matters.
Peruvian President Fujimori’s intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, underwent a similar evolution. The regime brutally crushed the Sendero Luminoso
insurgency, and Montesinos organized death squads. Yet later, he came to favor

Informational Autocrats

107

indirect methods. When an aide suggested using death threats against a television
magnate, he replied: “Remember why Pinochet had his problems. We will not be so
clumsy.” Instead, he stripped the tycoon of Peruvian citizenship, letting regulations
against foreign media ownership do the rest (in this journal, McMillan and Zoido
2004, 74, 85).
Instead of long sentences for dissidents, many rulers now favor short detentions
interspersed with amnesties. Unlike his brother Fidel, who jailed some dissidents for
more than ten years, Cuba’s Raul Castro held dissidents for just a few days, enough
to intimidate without attracting much attention (Amnesty International 2012).
Authorities in Russia and Morocco use preventative short-term detentions to disrupt
opposition events. Related techniques include house arrest, job loss, and denial of
housing, educational opportunities, or travel documents—all of which can be cast
more easily as nonpolitical. The ability to identify and target troublemakers before
they act has been enhanced by new surveillance technology.
Decreased violence may improve the dictator’s odds of retiring safely, rather
than being overthrown. Although we cannot make causal claims, our data are
consistent with this possibility. Among leaders of nondemocracies who left office
between 1946 and 2013 after serving at least five years, the probability of exile,
imprisonment, or death within a year of exit correlated positively with the scale of
political killing under the leader’s rule. For those with no recorded political killings, the probability of these three post-tenure mishaps was only 0.36; for those with
more than 10,000 killings per year, it was 0.86. The probability of post-tenure exile,
imprisonment, or quick death was 0.46 for those who had held political prisoners,
but just 0.17 for those who had not, and 0.49 for those accused of torturing political
detainees, compared with 0.26 for those not facing such accusations.5

Violence Concealed
In many autocracies, leaders publicize their brutality to deter opposition or
energize supporters. From medieval monarchs to the Afghan Taliban, rulers have
staged show trials and bloody executions of “traitors” and “heretics.” Some organize
macabre public rituals to increase the impact. Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo,
for instance, paraded the corpse of an executed rebel in a chair through his home
province, forcing the rebel’s peasant supporters “to dance with his remains” (Derby
2009, 2–3). Ahmad bin Yahya, the king of Yemen, had the heads of executed “traitors” “hung on the branches of trees as a warning” (Roucek 1962, 312–13).
The effect on observers is as important as that on the victim. General Muammar
Gaddafi of Libya mocked those rulers who killed their enemies secretly, boasting
that his opponents had been “executed on television” (Amnesty International 1988,
5
In online Appendix A, Figure A5 illustrates these patterns. Of course, we cannot exclude the possibility
that violence increases both the odds of punishment after stepping down and the odds of surviving
indefinitely in office, which would lead to censoring of our data.

108

Journal of Economic Perspectives

247–48). Generalissimo Francisco Franco of Spain even had a special sentence for
those whose fate he wanted to advertise broadly: garotte y prensa, which loosely translates as “strangulation by garotte with press coverage” (Preston 2003, 42).
The point of such gruesome acts is not just sadism. In traditional dictatorships, especially those with limited state capacity, the horror of punishments
must compensate for the relatively limited probability that disloyal acts will be
detected. “Why should we fear a bit of shock?” Chairman Mao Zedong of China
once asked. “We want to be shocking” (Mao 1964). Pakistan’s General Muhammad
Zia-ul-Haq insisted: “Martial law should be based on fear” (as quoted in Noman
1989, 33).6 For some dictators, violence was not just a deterrent but a tool of
social engineering. Benito Mussolini hoped it would transform Italians from a
“race of sheep” into a “Nordic people” (Adler 2005, 299). Tens of thousands
of Italians who resisted were held in concentration camps on remote islands
(Ebner 2011).
In informational autocracies, by contrast, violence can puncture the dictator’s
image, prompting a spiral of protest and insider defections. In Ukraine in 2000,
a tape apparently implicating President Leonid Kuchma in a journalist’s killing
sparked demonstrations that ultimately led to the country’s “Orange Revolution.”
In 1980s Poland, the murder by the security services of a popular priest, Father Jerzy
Popieluszko, had a similar effect (Bloom 2013, 354). More generally, among the 46
cases from 1989 to 2011 in which a government’s violent response to an unarmed
protest caused more than 25 deaths, the crackdown catalyzed domestic mobilization
in 30 percent of these cases and prompted security force defections in 17 percent
(Sutton, Butcher, and Svensson 2014). Such repression backfired more often in
countries with higher income and opposition media.
Those—usually in the security forces—who prefer a regime of raw repression
sometimes commit atrocities to compromise their leader, hoping to compel a switch
from information manipulation to blatant force. This dynamic also shows why an
incompetent security apparatus can imperil a dictator. After troops shot dead the
Philippine opposition leader Benigno Aquino in 1983, President Ferdinand Marcos
could not deny complicity. This murder ignited the “People’s Power” movement
that eventually split Marcos’s military support, triggering his overthrow.
Informational autocrats use various tricks to camouflage those acts of repression they still commit. One is to prosecute dissidents for nonpolitical—preferably
embarrassing—crimes. Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania instructed his security chief
to use “inventiveness and creativity” in neutralizing dissidents: “We can arrest them
as embezzlers or speculators, accuse them of dereliction of their professional duties,
or whatever else best fits each case. Once a fellow’s in prison, he’s yours” (as quoted
in Pacepa 1990, 144–45). Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore berated his Malaysian counterpart Mahathir Mohamad for arresting the opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim in 1998
under the Internal Security Act rather than for some ordinary crime (Pereira 2000).

6

For other examples of deliberately public violence, see Table A1 in online Appendix A.

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

109

The nonpolitical offenses that recent dictators have used to charge political opponents range from what one might expect, such as corruption or adultery, to more
exotic charges, such as disrupting traffic, stealing street art, and illegal elk hunting.7

End of Ideology
Many past autocrats sought to impose comprehensive ideologies. In totalitarian
systems, these often involved holistic conceptions of man and society that legitimized
the dictator’s rule and required personal sacrifices (Linz 2000, 76), while decisively
rejecting capitalist democracy. Some nontotalitarian autocrats also adopted guiding
doctrines. Reactionaries constructed world views based on Catholic teachings. Leftists combined Marxism with indigenous elements.
Almost all such ideologies defined regime opponents as evil and, in this way,
justified harsh measures against them. We see their use as aimed, at least in part, at
motivating state agents to violently punish opposition. Ideology is often a complement of repression.
Informational autocrats, eschewing mass repression, have less need for
ideology. Although they are often critical of the West, they rarely reject democracy per se, merely insisting that it evolve within their unique conditions. For
Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, that means “illiberal democracy”; for Russia’s Vladimir
Putin, “sovereign democracy.” Many have no ideology at all. Those who do—for
instance, Hugo Chávez, with his populist “Chavismo”—use it to signal commitment to social causes, rather than to control citizens’ thought. In all these cases,
the rulers pretend to care for citizens’ well-being, thus mimicking democratic
leaders.
We collected data on which postwar nondemocracies had an official ideology—
that is, a social, political, or religious doctrine, endorsed by top officials, that
influenced the content of laws. As Figure 3 shows, by far the most frequent was some
form of Marxism: we coded regimes as Marxist if the government was dominated
by a communist party or if the leader publicly said he was a Marxist. We categorized
nondemocracies as Islamist if they privileged Islamic over secular law on a broad
range of issues. A residual category, “other ideologies,” contains more exotic alternatives such as Ba’athism, Nasserism, Pancasila, and Kemalism.
The proportion of nondemocracies with official ideologies dwindles from 42
percent in 1983 to around 20 percent in the 1990s and 2000s. This reflects a sharp
drop in Marxist regimes (from 28 percent to about 7 percent), although “other
ideologies” also lost ground. Islamism increased, but only from around 2 percent in
the mid-1970s to 6 percent in 2015.

7

For a list of some other nonpolitical offenses with which opposition members have been charged, see
Table A2 in online Appendix A.

110

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Figure 3
Percentage of Nondemocracies with an Official Ideology
45
40
35

Marxist
Islamist
Other official ideology

Percent

30
25
20
15
10
5
0
1946 1951 1956 1961 1966 1971 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011

Source: Guriev and Treisman (2017).
Note: The number of nondemocracies (Polity2 < 6) rose from 48 in 1946 to a peak of 108 in 1977, before
falling to 68 in 2015.

Mimicking Democracy
Overt dictatorships should have little use for ostensibly democratic institutions
such as legal opposition parties, popularly elected parliaments, and partially free
presidential elections. Such institutions complicate decision-making and could help
opposition actors coordinate. Yet with the proliferation of informational autocracies, such institutions have multiplied. Consider elected parliaments. Whereas in
1975 almost one-half of nondemocracies had no elected legislature at all, by 2015
more than two-thirds had parliaments in which nongovernment parties had at least
a token presence, as shown in Figure 4.
Voting for head of the executive branch of government has also spread. More
and more authoritarian leaders have been taking office by election, rather than by
military coup or some other irregular path. Between the 1970s cohort and the 2000s
cohort of dictators (who remained in office at least five years), the percentage originally elected rose from 14 to 56 percent (Guriev and Treisman 2017).
Coming to power through an election—like avoiding violent repression while
in office—may increase a dictator’s odds of a peaceful retirement. Again, we cannot
make causal claims, but the evidence is consistent with this. Among dictators stepping down between 1946 and 2013 (after at least five years in power), more than

Informational Autocrats

111

Figure 4
Percentage of Nondemocracies with Legislatures of Different Types
100
90
80
70

Percent

60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2005

Elected legislature:
government parties have
95% or less of seats

Elected legislature:
government parties have
more than 95% of seats

Unelected legislature

No legislature

2010

2015

Source: Cruz, Keefer, and Scartascini (2016).
Note: The number of nondemocracies (Polity2 < 6) was 107 in 1975 and 68 in 2015.

one-half of those who had not come to power through election were either exiled,
imprisoned, or killed within one year. Among those who had been elected, only
about one-third suffered any of these fates.
While totalitarian states also mobilize citizens to vote in ritual elections, most
authoritarian states today seek to render their elections more credible. Rather
than banning opposition parties outright—thus revealing a lack of confidence—
they permit opposition but then harass candidates and manipulate the media to
ensure large victories. Between the early 1990s and 2012, the share of elections
in nondemocracies in which media bias favoring the incumbent was alleged rose
from 35 to 58 percent. In the same period, the share in which state harassment
of opposition candidates was alleged rose from 29 to 45 percent (of those cases

112

Journal of Economic Perspectives

in which opposition was allowed; Hyde and Marinov 2012). Seeking external and
internal legitimacy, regimes invite international monitors, who tend to focus on the
immediate pre-election period rather than on longer-term policies that disadvantage challengers. Since the late 1980s, the percentage of such elections monitored
by international observers rose from 26 to 84 percent (Hyde and Marinov 2012).

Rhetoric of Performance Rather Than Violence
When old-style dictators address the general public, they seek to instill anxiety,
prompting citizens to rally behind the nation’s protector-in-chief. We argue that
informational autocrats, like democratic leaders, aim for something different: a
reputation for competence. Thus, we expect the rhetorical style of informational
autocrats to diverge from that of overt dictators and to mimic that of democrats. To
see whether this is the case, we compared speeches of several key examples of overt
dictators, informational autocrats, and democrats.
Speech Data
Which statesmen should serve as exemplars of these three categories? Our
selection was determined by a mix of theory and data availability. We used two
criteria: (1) leaders considered important in the historical or current literature and
(2) leaders for whom we could find a sufficient number of appropriate speeches.
To identify informational autocrats, we focused on the level of repression. We
singled out leaders of nondemocracies under whom fewer than five state political
killings occurred per year and no more than 100 political prisoners were held at
the peak, and chose four of these for whom appropriate speeches were available:
Vladimir Putin (Russia), Rafael Correa (Ecuador), Hugo Chávez (Venezuela), and
Nursultan Nazarbayev (Kazakhstan).8 In addition, we included Lee Kuan Yew of
Singapore, using only speeches from his later years in office, when the number of
political prisoners was well below 100. (Early in his tenure, more than 100 had been
reported.) We see Lee as evolving from a relatively moderate overt dictator to a
pioneer of informational autocracy. The overt dictators whose speeches we include
all come from violent nondemocracies: Josef Stalin, Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini,
Francisco Franco, Saddam Hussein, Fidel Castro, and Kim Jong Un. The democrats are Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jawaharlal Nehru, Dwight Eisenhower, David
Cameron, Nicolas Sarkozy, and Barack Obama. In both cases, we sought to include
a mix of newer and older leaders.
We chose speeches directed at the general public rather than the elite or specific
subgroups. Thus, we focused on those broadcast nationwide by radio or television.
We excluded speeches made during wars, at party meetings, or outside the country,
as well as those targeting primarily international audiences. We used addresses to

8

Polity IV codes the Putin regime a nondemocracy only from 2008, so we used texts only from that year on.

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

113

parliament only when they were broadcast nationally and when better materials
were unavailable—such speeches, although communicating with the public, may
also incorporate strictly legislative business—and excluded interviews or press
conferences where interviewers chose the topics. However, in several cases (for
example, Putin, Eisenhower) we used the leader’s answers to questions from citizens in televised call-in or town hall meeting events (of course, dropping speech
of questioners or hosts). Although the questioners—like interviewers—help set
the agenda in such shows, the range of issues is usually broad, allowing the leader
considerable freedom. (In addition, the leader’s team may vet questions.)
We often included campaign speeches and regular radio or television
addresses. For Barack Obama, we took a random sample of 40 (out of his roughly
400) weekly radio addresses. For Franklin Roosevelt, we used the 13 “Fireside
Chats” before World War II. For Hugo Chávez, we randomly selected 6 of 378
episodes of Alo Presidente, a lengthy television show in which he chatted with ministers and citizens, dropping parts not spoken by Chávez himself. Similarly, we used
twelve recent episodes of Ecuadoran President Rafael Correa’s broadcast Enlace
Ciudadano (Citizens’ Link) that were available online, again excluding parts not
spoken by him.
It might seem desirable to analyze texts in the speaker’s language. However,
each analysis employs a dictionary relating words to particular topics, and the
different language dictionaries may not fully correspond. Therefore, we used English
translations of each non-English speech. For most of the speeches, we could find
high-quality English versions, but for a few leaders, far more numerous appropriate
speeches were available in the original language. While the best machine translation programs remain imperfect for most tasks, word count text analysis is arguably
an exception. When estimating word frequencies, the order of words, punctuation,
grammar, and so on do not matter, so the “software needs only to correctly translate
the significant terms in the original document” (Lucas et al. 2015, 7). As recommended by Lucas et al., we used Google Translate to obtain English versions of
texts in the few relevant cases (Franco in Spain, Chávez in Venezuela, Correa in
Ecuador).
Results
We used a dictionary method of text analysis to compare the frequency of
certain words in the speeches of different leaders (Grimmer and Stewart 2013).
Our hypothesis was that appeals to the general public by informational autocrats
will in key respects resemble those of democrats more than those of overt dictators.
We focused on three aspects. Overt dictators will use vocabulary related to violence
(both domestic and external) to create anxiety among listeners. By contrast, informational autocrats—like democrats—will emphasize economic performance and
public service provision in the attempt to convince citizens they are competent and
effective leaders.
Our first task was to construct lists of words representative of the rhetorical
strategies of dictators, informational autocrats, and democrats. Since we aimed to

114

Journal of Economic Perspectives

compare the vocabulary of informational autocrats to those of overt dictators and
of democrats, we used the speeches of overt dictators and democrats as sources.
From these, we compiled lists of candidate words and their cognates for all three
topics. Of course, many words have multiple meanings. We therefore scanned the
speeches to check how frequently a given word was used with the “wrong” meaning.
(For instance, “spending” money is relevant to economic performance and public
service provision; “spending” time is not.) When we found more than two nongermane uses, we excluded the word from the list.
This approach produced three “dictionaries” or lists of words in three categories: violence (142 word stems, with examples including death*, massacre*, war,
blood, prison), economic performance (112 word stems, including sales, wages,
wealthy, inflation, prosper*), and public service provision (28 word stems, including
expenditure, childcare, hospitals, education, funding). We used the text analysis
program LIWC2015 (Pennebaker et al. 2015) to count the frequencies of words
from the respective dictionaries.
To validate the dictionaries, we used them first to analyze three sets of texts deliberately selected to contain high concentrations of words related to: (1) economic
performance (transcripts of six International Monetary Fund briefings on the
World Economic Outlook), (2) public service provision (budget speeches by the
finance ministers of five democracies), and (3) violence (closing arguments of
prosecutors at the Nuremberg trial of Nazi leaders, the International Criminal
Tribunal trial of former Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, and the trial of terrorist
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev). If the word lists are well constructed, the International Monetary Fund briefings should rate relatively high on economic performance (but not
on violence), the budget speeches should rate high on public service provision
(but, again, not on violence), and the prosecutors’ statements should rate high on
violence (but not on economic performance or public service provision). Indeed,
the scores of these three sets of validation texts should define benchmarks against
which the leaders’ speeches can be judged. In each case, the dictionary reliably
placed the texts in the appropriate ranges on the three dimensions.9
Figure 5 presents the results for the leaders’ speeches. For reference, we
also plot the scores of the validation texts using diamond markers—International
Monetary Fund briefings (high on economic performance words, low on
violence), prosecutors’ speeches (high on violence, low on economic performance and public service provision), budget speeches (high on public service
provision, low on violence). As expected, the overt dictatorships cluster in the
high violence and low economic performance and service provision parts of the
graph. Stalin’s public addresses sound about as violent as the prosecutor’s summation in the Karadzic war crimes trial. Also as expected, the democratic leaders
9

See online Appendix A for more details. For sources of all the speeches used, see Table A3. Table A4
provides the three lists of words used. Sources for the three sets of texts used as comparison for purposes
of validation are in Table A5. Figure A7 shows how frequently words from the three dictionaries appear
in the validation texts.

Informational Autocrats

115

Figure 5
Rhetoric of Different Types of Leaders
A: Economic performance and violence

Percentage of words associated
with economic performance

6
Overt dictators

5

IMF briefings
Informational
autocrats

4

Democrats

Lee K. Yew
FDR
Nazarbayev

3

Obama
Putin
Sarkozy

2
Cameron

Castro
Kim Jong Un

Correa

Stalin

Franco
Nehru
Chávez
Eisenhower

1

Mussolini
Hussein

0
0.0

0.5

Hitler

Prosecutors' closing arguments

1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5 4.0
Percentage of words associated with violence

4.5

5.0

B: Public service provision and violence
2.0

Percentage of words associated
with public service provision

1.8

Overt dictators
Budget speeches

1.6

Informational
autocrats

1.4

Democrats

1.2
1.0

Nazarbayev

0.8
0.6

Putin

Cameron

Chávez
Obama

0.4 Lee K. Yew Correa
0.2
0.0
0.0

FDR

Castro

Eisenhower
Kim Jong Un
Franco
Mussolini
Nehru Hussein

0.5

1.0

1.5

Prosecutors' closing arguments
Hitler

2.0

Stalin

2.5

3.0

3.5

4.0

4.5

5.0

Percentage of words associated with violence
Source: Authors’ calculations. For dictionaries and sources of texts, see Tables A3 and A4 in online
Appendix A, available with this article at the Journal of Economic Perspectives website.
Note: Lee Kuan Yew speeches are from 1980 to 1990; Putin speeches are after 2008. “IMF briefings”
are transcripts of six International Monetary Fund briefings on the World Economic Outlook. “Budget
speeches” are budget speeches by the finance ministers of five democracies in 2016–2018 (Australia,
Trinidad and Tobago, India, South Africa, United Kingdom). “Prosecutors’ closing arguments” are
prosecutors’ closing statements from the Nuremberg trial of Nazi leaders, the International Criminal
Tribunal trial of former Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, and the trial of terrorist Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. For
details, see Table A5 in online Appendix A.

116

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Table 1
Means, Standard Errors, and Significance Levels in Two-Tailed Tests of
Equivalence of Means

Overt dictators
Democrats
Informational autocrats
Informational autocrats versus overt dictators
Informational autocrats versus democrats

Violence

Economic performance

Public service
provision

1.41
(0.21)
0.65
(0.13)
0.51
(0.08)
p = 0.006
p = 0.42

0.99
(0.23)
1.87
(0.37)
2.28
(0.48)
p = 0.02
p = 0.51

0.12
(0.06)
0.32
(0.07)
0.58
(0.10)
p = 0.002
p = 0.07

Source: Calculations by the authors using announcement information from the Wall Street Journal and
stock price data from the Center for Research in Security Prices.

cluster in the low violence and high economic performance and service provision
areas. Among overt dictators, Fidel Castro’s rhetoric is the most oriented toward
economic performance and service provision, but he still surpasses all democrats
for violent imagery. Among democrats, Eisenhower employed ­unusually violent
vocabulary—a function of the intense Cold War period (although we exclude all
war years, so all Eisenhower’s speeches are from after the end of the Korean War).
Nehru spoke relatively little about service provision. These anomalies notwithstanding, the democrats and overt dictators mostly separate out neatly on these
dimensions.
What about the informational autocrats? As hypothesized, they blend in with
the democrats, emphasizing economic performance and service provision rather
than violence. Indeed, the leader with the most insistent discourse of economic
performance is Lee Kuan Yew, whose speeches sounded almost like International
Monetary Fund briefings. The leader in discourse on service provision is Kazakhstan’s President Nazarbayev, whose “State of the Nation” addresses resemble
democratic leaders’ budget speeches.
As Table 1 shows, the differences between the informational autocrats and
overt dictators included in the graphs are meaningful in size and unlikely to
have arisen by chance. Whereas words associated with violence made up 1.41
percent of all those in the speeches of overt dictators, violent words were just
0.51 percent of those used by informational autocrats. Roughly every fortieth
word of an i­nformational ­autocrat—but only every hundredth word of an overt
dictator—concerned economic performance. The informational autocrats were
very close to the democratic leaders on vocabulary of violence and of economic
performance, and they actually used more words related to public service than the
democrats.

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

117

Beliefs of Elites and Masses
In a recent paper, we offer a formal account of how informational autocrats
hold onto power (Guriev and Treisman 2018). The underlying logic is that of a
game with asymmetric information. The ruler may be competent or incompetent.
The general public does not observe competence directly, but a small “informed
elite” does. Both the elite and the public prefer a competent ruler, because this
leads to higher living standards on average. If the public concludes that the ruler
is incompetent, it overthrows the leader in a revolt. The elite may send messages to
the public, and the leader can try to block these with censorship or to buy the elite’s
silence—but at the cost of diverting resources from sustaining living standards. The
ruler can also send “propaganda” messages, blaming economic failures on external
conditions.10
In some circumstances, the ruler achieves a higher probability of survival by
manipulating information than by deterring revolt through repression (overt dictatorship) or alternatively by devoting all resources to improving living standards
(democracy). Whether informational autocracy constitutes an equilibrium depends
on two key variables—the size of the informed elite and the ease with which, given
technology, the state can monopolize the media. Both of these relate to a country’s level of economic development. In highly modern countries, the informed
elite is generally too large for manipulation to work, and censoring all private
media is costly: democracy is the only option. In undeveloped countries, repression
often remains more cost effective. But at intermediate levels of development, both
democracy and informational autocracy are possible outcomes. Which one occurs
will depend on how effectively the state can dominate political communications to
ordinary citizens.
From this perspective, the key goal of informational autocrats is to prevent
elite members from revealing the regime’s flaws to the general public. Of course,
such manipulation works only if the public does not detect it. This has two implications: (1) the public should be less aware of censorship than the elite, and
(2) informational autocrats should be more popular with the public than with the
elite.
To test these implications, we use individual-level data from the Gallup World
Poll for 2006–2017. This annual poll surveys around 1,000 respondents from each
of more than 120 countries, with broad coverage of democracies and informational
autocracies.11 As a rough proxy for membership in the informed elite, we use here
a dummy for whether the respondent had completed tertiary education.

10

In a related paper, Shadmehr and Bernhardt (2015) analyze the inference problem for citizens who
must decide whether the absence of “bad news” is due to state censorship or to a lack of bad news for
journalists to report.
11
As data are for recent years, almost all nondemocracies in the Gallup World Poll are informational
autocracies. Coverage of the few remaining overt dictatorships is sparse: for example, there are no polls
of North Korea or Syria and only one of Cuba.

118

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Censorship
Many twentieth-century dictators used censorship, like public violence, to intimidate possible opponents. The Nazis burned certain books in public squares, and the
Soviets demonstratively banned them. In Chile, Augusto Pinochet stationed censors
in every newspaper, magazine, radio station, and television channel (Spooner 1999,
89). African autocrats shuttered papers and imprisoned, exiled, or murdered their
reporters (Lamb 1987, 245–46).
For informational autocrats, such measures would be self-defeating, exposing
their need to hide the truth. Instead, they adopt less obvious techniques. In Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew co-opted shareholders in key media companies. ­Newspapers’
corporate boards—supposedly independent—then did the censoring for him.
When loyalty failed, he punished offending journalists with lawsuits. In one
analyst’s words: “forsaken profits and stiff legal penalties have been more effective in fostering self-censorship than earlier methods of intimidation” (Rodan
1998, 69).
Others have acted similarly. Orbán, in Hungary, has starved critical radio
stations of state advertising, leaving them vulnerable to takeovers by government
allies (Howard 2014). In Russia, Putin has “often relied on surrogates and economic
pressure to keep editors and journalists in line” (Gehlbach 2010, 78). Peru’s Fujimori bribed most private media (Faiola 1999).
Such indirect methods of censorship, besides protecting the dictator’s image,
also avoid stimulating a search for the censored information. In China, blocking
websites outright inspires net users to “jump the great firewall,” but introducing
technical search friction does not (Roberts 2018). Moreover, if censored sparingly, social networks can be used by the state as a tool of surveillance (in this
journal, Qin, Strömberg, and Wu 2017). In Russia, the Kremlin enlists supposedly independent hackers and trolls to hinder opposition communication. When
informational autocrats do admit to censorship, they often claim—as Russia’s
government does—to be protecting citizens from “extremism,” “vandalism,” and
child pornography (Kramer 2007).
Such techniques aim to conceal censorship from the public. If they succeed,
ordinary citizens should have higher estimates of media freedom than members of
the elite, who experience restrictions firsthand. To test this, we used a Gallup World
Poll question that asked: “Do the media in this country have a lot of freedom, or
not?” We created a dummy, taking the value 1 for an answer of “yes” and 0 for an
answer of “no.” (Respondents could also say “don’t know,” or refuse to answer.)
We regressed this on elite membership, using a linear probability model, including
country-year fixed effects, and clustering standard errors by country-year. (Note that
the country-year fixed effects control for actual media freedom, as well as other
country-wide influences.)
We divided countries up according to actual media freedom, as measured in
Freedom House’s press freedom ratings. Where the media are free, both the elite
and the public should observe this, and so no perceptions gap should exist. However,
as freedom falls, the gap between actual press freedom—as perceived accurately

Informational Autocrats

119

Figure 6
Perceptions of Media Freedom, Elite versus General Public

Marginal effects of elite membership
on perceived media freedom

0.02
0
–0.02
–0.04
–0.06
–0.08
–0.1

0–19
(77,701)

20–39
(234,185)

40–59
(327,875)

60–79
(250,291)

80+
(136,249)

Press freedom score (observations in subsample)
Source: Gallup World Poll, Freedom House, and authors’ calculations.
Note: The chart reports confidence intervals for the effect of elite membership on perceived media
freedom for five subsamples of countries defined by their Freedom House press freedom scores (0–19,
20–39, 40–59, 60–79, 80–100). We normalize the score so that 0 is perfect censorship and 100 is full press
freedom. Numbers in parentheses represent the number of individual observations in each subsample.
The regressions include country-year fixed effects. Standard errors are clustered by country-year. See
Table A6 in online Appendix A, available with this article at the Journal of Economic Perspectives website, for
robustness checks including controls for age, age squared, gender, and urban status.

by the elite—and the overly positive assessment of the manipulated public should
grow. As Figure 6 shows, the data strongly confirm this supposition. For countries
with high press freedom, the gap between elite and public perceptions is zero. As
actual press freedom falls, the gap widens to a maximum of almost 8 percentage
points. Where the press is censored, the general public—as predicted—is less aware
of this than are highly educated citizens.12

12
In online Appendix A, Table A6 provides a robustness check with controls for individual characteristics. Table A7 reports results for additional specifications, including the interaction between tertiary
education and actual press freedom, and operationalizing the latter in several ways. In all specifications,
results resemble those in Figure 6: the stronger the censorship, the greater the gap between perceptions
of media freedom among the elite and ordinary citizens. In online Appendix B, we also consider a simple
model microfounding the relationship between the true and perceived media freedom; its predictions
are in line with the results in Table A7.

120

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Figure 7
Approval of Country’s Leadership: Elite versus General Public
Marginal effects of elite membership
on approval of country leadership

0.02
0
−0.02
−0.04

)
80

,6

29

)
(2
10
=
y2
lit
Po

Po

lit

y2

=

9

(1

97

,4

95

)
,2

76

)
8

Po

lit

y2

=
y2
lit
Po

=

7

(1

60

,8
10
(1

(1
6
=

y2
lit
Po

89

63
,1
04

,5
(1
5

≤
y2
lit

Po
0

<

86

43
(1
0

≤
y2
lit

Po
≤

−
5

45

50
,7

48
0,
(5
5
<−
y2
lit
Po

)

)

5)

−0.08

)

−0.06

Source: Gallup World Poll, Polity IV, and authors’ calculations.
Note: The chart reports confidence intervals for the effect of elite membership on approval of the country’s
leadership for subsamples defined by Polity2 score. Numbers in parentheses represent the number of
observations in each subsample. The regressions include country-year fixed effects. Standard errors are
clustered at country-year level. For a robustness check including controls for individual characteristics
(age, age squared, gender, urban status), see Table A8 in online Appendix A, available with this article at
the Journal of Economic Perspectives website.

Regime Support
Here we use the Gallup World Poll question: “Do you approve or disapprove of
the job performance of the leadership of this country?” Again using a linear probability model, we regressed a dummy for positive approval on a dummy for elite
membership, in sets of countries divided up according to their regime type. As noted
earlier, the Polity IV data rate countries on a 21-point scale from −10, “full autocracy,”
to +10, “full democracy.” As before, we controlled for country-year fixed effects and
clustered standard errors by country-year. The main results are presented in Figure 7.
As predicted, in authoritarian states—as well as in flawed democracies, with
Polity2 scores of 6 to 8—approval of the national leadership was lower among the
highly educated. This contrasts with the consolidated democracies—with scores
of 9 or 10—where the highly educated were, if anything, more supportive of their
­government. Since the highly educated tend to earn more, their lower support for
leaders in authoritarian states might seem surprising.13 But it fits the notion—central
13

We estimated the relationship for the full sample including both elite membership and its interaction
with the level of democracy (see Table A9 in online Appendix A). The results are very similar. We also

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

121

to our theory—that the elite perceives its rulers’ incompetence more accurately
than does the general public.
As a placebo test, we checked whether in nondemocracies the highly educated
also had lower life satisfaction than the general public. They did not: in fact, as in
democracies, their life satisfaction was substantially higher. We also tried controlling for income; education remained associated with lower approval, while the
effect of income was insignificant.14 This is consistent with our argument that it
is political knowledge, proxied by higher education, that predisposes citizens to
oppose authoritarian regimes. Income may include co-optation payments to some
members of the elite, which align recipients’ interests with those of the ruler.

Other Theories of Modern Authoritarian Governance
The logic of informational autocracy explains some otherwise puzzling
features of current authoritarian politics. Much recent analysis assumes that citizens in such states detest their rulers but cannot coordinate to overthrow them.
Dictators take a number of actions that can be interpreted as ways of blocking
revolts: they restrict communication among citizens and criminalize protests
(Kricheli, Livne, and Magaloni 2011), censor calls for antiregime collective
action (King, Pan, and Roberts 2013), publish misleading propaganda about
their repressive capacity (Edmond 2013; Huang 2015), or use both propaganda
and censorship to divide opponents (Chen and Xu 2017). Some argue that these
actions can lead to ­trade-offs for the ruler—censorship needed to prevent coordination deprives the regime of useful information (Egorov, Guriev, and Sonin 2009;
Lorentzen 2014).
However, some autocratic leaders today—although corrupt and ineffective—
seem genuinely popular. It is not that citizens cannot coordinate to resist them:
many do not want to. Notwithstanding the difficulties of polling in unfree societies,
most experts agree that Putin in Russia, Erdogan in Turkey, and Chávez in Venezuela have for substantial periods of time enjoyed genuine public support. This
popularity is not based on the brainwashing and personality cults of totalitarian
leaders, or on narrow sectarian or ethnic identities and interests. At least some
dictators in power today survive not by preventing the masses from rebelling, but by
removing their desire to do so.

estimated a Mincerian equation using Gallup World Poll data (Table A10). Controlling for gender, age,
age squared, and urban status, individuals with tertiary education earned salaries 40 percent higher
than those with secondary education (the difference was 30 percent if we controlled for occupation). As
shown in Table A11, the returns to tertiary education are similar across countries with different levels of
democracy (Polity2 score).
14
In online Appendix A, Table A12 shows the correlation between being highly educated and life satisfaction across nondemocracies. Table A13 shows that the correlation continues to hold after controlling for
income in nondemocracies. By contrast, in democracies both education and income—even if included
together—were both positively related to approval.

122

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Another key feature of informational autocracies is the use of formally democratic institutions. Many scholars have pondered the role of such institutions in
dictatorships. Some see them as mechanisms for solving time inconsistency problems. If a ruler creates institutions that constrain his own actions, that ruler can
commit to repay state debts and to respect property rights (North and Weingast
1989; Gehlbach and Keefer 2011), to redistribute income to the poor (Boix 2003;
Acemoglu and Robinson 2006), or to share power with colleagues (Myerson 2008;
Svolik 2012; Boix and Svolik 2013). Partly competitive elections may inform the
ruler about local attitudes or his agents’ effectiveness (Cox 2009; Blaydes 2010) and
project strength—both to his allies (Gandhi and Lust-Okar 2009; Simpser 2013;
Gehlbach and Simpser 2015) and to his opponents (Egorov and Sonin 2014; Little
2016; Rozenas 2016).
These arguments make sense, although some dictators seem to relish retracting
the commitments that scholars had previously thought credible (as a recent
example, consider Xi Jinping’s elimination of presidential term limits in China).
However, such institutions may perform a simpler function. If information manipulation has successfully inflated the autocrat’s reputation, elections can be used to
distill popularity into legitimacy. The appearance of democracy can be added to the
image of competence.
Another literature models interactions between dictators and their support
group when these are not mediated by institutions. Key questions in this approach
are how the ruler chooses the size and characteristics of the ruler’s inner circle
and how this, in turn, determines policy choices and survival odds for the ruler
(Bueno de Mesquita et al. 2003; Egorov and Sonin 2011). Like our approach, the
“selectorate theory” of Bueno de Mesquita et al. considers three actors: a ruling
individual or group, an elite, and the public. However, selectorate theory concerns
the ­distribution of material benefits under—in most cases—perfect information,
while ours focuses on the transmission of information about the dictator’s type.
And while the selectorate gets to choose the ruler, our informed elite has no power
except to influence and assist the public. Whereas rulers in selectorate theory bribe
elites to prevent coups, our rulers bribe them—or censor them—to stay silent so as
to avoid mass unrest.
A number of authors have suggested alternative ways to classify nondemocracies. Some emphasize the objectives of rulers. Besides the familiar distinction
between authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, which aim for different degrees of
social control (Linz 2000), Wintrobe (1990) introduces the “tinpot” dictator, who
maximizes consumption subject to a power constraint. Others highlight the identity
of the ruling group: for example, Geddes, Wright, and Frantz (2018) distinguish
among monarchies and military, one-party, and personalist dictatorships. Our
distinction between “overt dictatorships” and “informational autocracies” focuses
on the method of maintaining power and thus cuts across previous categories. Informational autocrats can aim for more or less power and more or less personal wealth.
They are most often personalist dictators, but they can also be found in one-party

Informational Autocrats

123

regimes (Singapore, Malaysia) and even monarchies (some Middle Eastern and
North African states).

Concluding Remarks
The totalitarian tyrants of the past employed mass violence, ideological indoctrination, and closed borders to monopolize power. Most authoritarian rulers
also used brutal repression to spread fear. However, in recent decades, a growing
number of nondemocratic leaders have chosen a different approach. Their goal—
concentrating power—remains the same. But their strategy is new. Rather than
intimidating the public, they manipulate information—buying the elite’s silence,
censoring private media, and broadcasting propaganda—in order to boost their
popularity and eliminate threats.
We documented the growing presence of such informational autocracies.
Modern authoritarians tend to be less brutal than their predecessors—and more
secretive when they do repress. Eschewing official ideologies, they imitate democracy, creating legislatures and holding elections, harassing opposition candidates
more often than banning them outright. Like democratic leaders, most dictators
today focus on economic performance and service provision when they address
the public and avoid the violent rhetoric of old-style autocrats. They often seem to
succeed in winning support from ordinary citizens while concealing from them the
extent of their deception.
What explains the shift in models of autocracy? Global influences have likely
contributed. The end of the Cold War, the emergence of an international human
rights movement, and advances in information technology have all called into
question old approaches. The cost of terrorizing one’s most productive citizens is
higher in an internationally connected economy that depends on innovation and
mobile capital. Autarky is less feasible today than 50 years ago.
Our own favored explanation emphasizes change in domestic conditions—
in particular, the spread of education and other aspects of social and economic
­modernization. As more and more citizens develop the skills and knowledge to
organize opposition, repressing all potential rebels becomes difficult. Yet if the
educated elite is not too large and the state can control the mass media, autocrats
can still achieve dominance by distorting information flows. One attraction of this
method—if it is successful—is that many citizens do not realize they are being
dominated. The argument combines the optimism of modernization theory with
the pessimism of twentieth-century critics of “mass society,” who feared that mobilization of unsophisticated groups into politics would leave them vulnerable to
manipulation (for example, Kornhauser 1960).
Informational autocracy could spread in two ways: through change of leaders,
as more modern autocrats take over from older ones, or change in leaders, as
incumbents adapt to new conditions or learn from experience while in office.
The decline in violence across successive cohorts (as shown in Figure 1) suggests

124

Journal of Economic Perspectives

replacement of leaders plays an important part. This echoes recent literature on
democratization, which finds that economic development prompts political reform
mostly right after new leaders take over (Treisman 2015).
Establishing whether incumbents change strategies while in office is harder. Even
if they did not, they might seem to be more violent early on. A new dictator must
establish credibility, which then can last for years without the need for additional
brutal acts. Some autocrats come to power in coups or civil wars, which give their
initial period a bloody coloration. For these reasons, we compared the average level
of political killing over the entire course of each dictator’s tenure. Still, anecdotal
evidence suggests that some leaders, such as Lee Kuan Yew, do innovate or learn in
office—and even share their discoveries with authoritarian peers.
Although better adapted to today’s world than overt dictatorship, informational
autocracy has clear limitations. The emphasis on economic performance leaves
leaders vulnerable to downturns, the facts of which are hard to conceal from those
laid off or suffering wage cuts. In Russia, rather than censoring bad economic news,
Kremlin spokesmen have sought—with some success—to redirect blame onto foreign
enemies (Rozenas and Stukal 2019).
Paradoxically, good economic performance can, over time, be equally destabilizing. As economic development expands the educated class, the cost of silencing
it via co-optation or censorship rises. Informational autocrats therefore struggle to
find a balance between supporting growth, which signals competence, and resisting
economic progress out of fear of its political and social spillovers. Although increased
propaganda and censorship can offset such spillovers for a while, in the long run,
continued modernization renders democracy the only equilibrium.
Thus, in Taiwan, an overt dictatorship under Chiang Kai-Shek evolved into an
informational autocracy under his son, Chiang Ching-Kuo, in his later years, before
transitioning to full democracy in the 1990s. In Malaysia, the informational autocracy
of Mahathir Mohamad edged over the line into corrupt democracy in the 2000s. Such
changes are never secure at first; countries can slide backward, especially if growth
stalls. And the timing of such transitions—since they depend in part on coordinated
action by regime opponents—cannot be predicted with confidence. Still, as Taiwan
demonstrates, with continuing development the change can last.

Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman

125

■ We thank Alberto Alesina, Marina Azzimonti, Maxim Boycko, Georgy Egorov, Francesco
Giavazzi, Andrea Prat, Gerard Roland, Gergely Ujhelyi, and other participants in the Political
Economy Meeting of the National Bureau of Economic Research (April 2015); participants
of the International Society for New Institutional Economics/Society for Institutional and
Organizational Economics (ISNIE/SIOE) Conference at Harvard and seminars at Warwick,
London School of Economics, New York University, European University Institute, Institute for
International Economic Studies (IIES) Stockholm, London Business School, Toulouse School
of Economics, and Bocconi University; and Maxim Ananyev, Timothy Besley, Bruce Bueno
de Mesquita, Chao-yo Cheng, George Derpanopoulos, Tiberiu Dragu, Barbara Geddes, Scott
Gehlbach, Gilat Levy, Elias Papaioannou, Torsten Persson, Richard Portes, Eugenio Proto,
Arturas Rozenas, Paul Seabright, Andrei Shleifer, Francesco Squintani, Eoghan Stafford, David
Stromberg, Guido Tabellini, Joshua Tucker, Qian Wang, Feng Yang, Ekaterina Zhuravskaya,
and Fabrizio Zilibotti for helpful comments and suggestions. We also thank Nikita Melnikov
and Ekaterina Nemova for excellent research assistance. The authors declare that they have no
relevant or material financial interests that relate to the research described in this paper.

References
Acemoglu, Daron, and James A. Robinson. 2006. Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
Adler, Franklin Hugh. 2005. “Why Mussolini Turned on the Jews.” Patterns of Prejudice 39 (3): 285–300.
Amnesty International. 1980. Report of an Amnesty International Mission to Singapore, 30 November to 5
December 1978. London: Amnesty International Publications. Excerpted at http://singaporerebel.
blogspot.com/2007/02/political-detention-in-singapore.html.
Amnesty International. 1988. Amnesty International Report 1988. London: Amnesty International Publications.
Amnesty International. 2012. Routine Repression: Political Short-Term Detentions and Harassment in Cuba.
London: Amnesty International Publications.
Amnesty International. 2017. Amnesty International Report 2016/17: The State of the World’s Human Rights.
London: Amnesty International Publications.
Blaydes, Lisa. 2010. Elections and Distributive Politics in Mubarak’s Egypt. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bloom, Jack M. 2013. Seeing through the Eyes of the Polish Revolution: Solidarity and the Struggle against
Communism in Poland. Boston: Brill.
Boix, Carles. 2003. Democracy and Redistribution. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Boix, Carles, and Milan W. Svolik. 2013. “The Foundations of Limited Authoritarian Government:
Institutions, Commitment, and Power-Sharing in Dictatorships.” Journal of Politics 75 (2): 300–16.
Bueno de Mesquita, Bruce, Alastair Smith, Randolph M. Siverson, and James D. Morrow. 2003. The Logic
of Political Survival. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chen, Jidong, and Yiqing Xu. 2017. “Information Manipulation and Reform in Authoritarian Regimes.”
Political Science Research and Methods 5 (1): 163–78.
Clark, Ann Marie, and Kathryn Sikkink. 2013. “Information Effects and Human Rights Data: Is the Good
News about Increased Human Rights Information Bad News for Human Rights Measures?” Human
Rights Quarterly 35 (3): 539–68.

126

Journal of Economic Perspectives

Cox, Gary W. 2009. “Authoritarian Elections and Leadership Succession, 1975–2004.” American Political
Science Association 2009 Toronto Meeting Paper. https://ssrn.com/abstract=1449034.
Cruz, Cesi, Philip Keefer, and Carlos Scartascini. 2016. Database of Political Institutions Codebook, 2015
Update. Washington, DC: Inter-American Development Bank.
Derby, Lauren. 2009. The Dictator’s Seduction: Politics and the Popular Imagination in the Era of Trujillo.
Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Ebner, Michael R. 2011. Ordinary Violence in Mussolini’s Italy. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Edmond, Chris. 2013. “Information Manipulation, Coordination, and Regime Change.” Review of
Economic Studies 80 (4): 1422–58.
Egorov, Georgy, Sergei Guriev, and Konstantin Sonin. 2009. “Why Resource-Poor Dictators Allow Freer
Media: A Theory and Evidence from Panel Data.” American Political Science Review 103 (4): 645–68.
Egorov, Georgy, and Konstantin Sonin. 2011. “Dictators and Their Viziers: Endogenizing The LoyaltyCompetence Trade-Off.” Journal of the European Economic Association 9 (5): 903–30.
Egorov, Georgy, and Konstantin Sonin. 2014. “Incumbency Advantage in Non-democracies.” NBER
Working Paper 20519.
Elegant, Simon, and Michael Elliott. 2005. “Lee Kuan Yew: The Man Who Saw It All.” Time Magazine,
December 12, 2005. http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1137707,00.html.
Faiola, Anthony. 1999. “Peruvian Government Targets Critical Media; S. American Nation Ranks with
Cuba as a Violator of Basic Press Freedoms.” Washington Post, July 13, 1999, A14.
Gandhi, Jennifer, and Ellen Lust-Okar. 2009. “Elections under Authoritarianism.” Annual Review of
Political Science 12 (1): 403–22.
Geddes, Barbara, Joseph Wright, and Erica Frantz. 2018. How Dictatorships Work: Power, Personalization,
and Collapse. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Gehlbach, Scott. 2010 “Reflections on Putin and the Media.” Post-Soviet Affairs 26 (1): 77–87.
Gehlbach, Scott, and Philip Keefer. 2011. “Investment Without Democracy: Ruling-Party Institutionalization and Credible Commitment in Autocracies.” Journal of Comparative Economics 39 (2):123–39.
Gehlbach, Scott, and Alberto Simpser. 2015. “Electoral Manipulation as Bureaucratic Control.” American
Journal of Political Science 59 (1): 212–24.
Grimmer, Justin, and Brandon M. Stewart. 2013. “Text as Data: The Promise and Pitfalls of Automatic
Content Analysis Methods for Political Texts.” Political Analysis 21 (3): 267–97.
Guriev, Sergei, and Daniel Treisman. 2017. Authoritarian Control Techniques Dataset V.1. UCLA: dataset.
https://www.danieltreisman.org/s/Replication.zip.
Guriev, Sergei, and Daniel Treisman. 2018. “Informational Autocracy: Theory and Empirics of Modern
Authoritarianism.” https://ssrn.com/abstract=2571905.
Howard, Philip N. 2014. “Hungary’s Crackdown on the Press.” New York Times, September 8, 2014.
https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/09/opinion/hungarys-crackdown-on-the-press.html.
Huang, Haifeng. 2015. “Propaganda as Signaling.” Comparative Politics 47 (4): 419–44.
Hyde, Susan D., and Nikolay Marinov. 2012. “Which Elections Can Be Lost?” Political Analysis 20 (2):
191–201.
King, Gary, Jennifer Pan, and Margaret E. Roberts. 2013. “How Censorship in China Allows Government
Criticism but Silences Collective Expression.” American Political Science Review 107 (2): 326–43.
Kornhauser, William. 1960. The Politics of Mass Society. New York: Routledge.
Kramer, Andrew E. 2007. “50% Good News Is the Bad News in Russian Radio.” New York Times, April 22,
2007. https://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/22/world/europe/22russia.html.
Kricheli, Ruth, Yair Livne, and Beatriz Magaloni. 2011. “Taking to the Streets: Theory and Evidence on
Protests under Authoritarianism.” American Political Science Association 2010 Annual Meeting
Paper. https://ssrn.com/abstract=1642040.
Lamb, David. 1987. The Africans. New York: Vintage Books.
Linz, Juan J. 2000. Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner.
Little, Andrew. 2016. “Communication Technology and Protest.” Journal of Politics 78 (1): 152–66.
Lorentzen, Peter. 2014. “China’s Strategic Censorship.” American Journal of Political Science 58 (2): 402–14.
Lucas, Christopher, Richard A. Nielsen, Margaret E. Roberts, Brandon M. Stewart, Alex Storer, and
Dustin Tingley. 2015. “Computer-Assisted Text Analysis for Comparative Politics.” Political
Analysis 23 (2): 254–77.
Mao, Zedong. 1964. “Remarks at the Small Group Meeting of the Central Party Work Conference.”
In Database for the History of Contemporary Chinese Political Movements, edited by Song Yongyi.

Informational Autocrats

127

Cambridge, MA: Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, Harvard University.
McMillan, John, and Pablo Zoido. 2004. “How to Subvert Democracy: Montesinos in Peru.” Journal of
Economic Perspectives 18 (4): 69–92.
Myerson, Roger B. 2008. “The Autocrat’s Credibility Problem and Foundations of the Constitutional
State.” American Political Science Review 102 (1): 125–39.
Noman, Omar. 1989. “Pakistan and General Zia: Era and Legacy.” Third World Quarterly 11 (1): 28–54.
North, Douglass C., and Barry R. Weingast. 1989. “Constitutions and Commitment: The Evolution of
Institutions Governing Public Choice in Seventeenth-Century England.” Journal of Economic History
49 (4): 803–32.
Pacepa, Ion Mihai. 1990. Red Horizons: The True Story of Nicolae and Elena Ceausescus’ Crimes, Lifestyle, and
Corruption. New York: Regnery.
Pennebaker, James W., Ryan L. Boyd, Kayla Jordan, and Kate Blackburn. 2015. “The Development and
Psychometric Properties of LIWC2015.” https://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/handle/2152/31333.
Pereira, Brendan. 2000. “Anwar Affair: ‘Some Errors in Judgment Were Made.’” Straits Times, August 18,
2000, 43.
Preston, Paul. 2003. The Politics of Revenge: Fascism and the Military in 20th Century Spain. New York: Routledge.
Qin, Bei, David Strömberg, and Yanhui Wu. 2017. “Why Does China Allow Freer Social Media? Protests
versus Surveillance and Propaganda.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 31 (1): 117–40.
Roberts, Margaret. 2018. Censored: Distraction and Diversion Inside China’s Great Firewall. ­Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press.
Rodan, Garry. 1998. “The Internet and Political Control in Singapore.” Political Science Quarterly 113
(1): 63–89.
Roucek, Joseph F. 1962. “Yemen in Geopolitics.” Contemporary Review 202 (1163): 310–17.
Rozenas, Arturas. 2016. “Office Insecurity and Electoral Manipulation.” Journal of Politics 78 (1): 232–48.
Rozenas, Arturas, and Denis Stukal. 2019. “How Autocrats Manipulate Economic News: Evidence from
Russia’s State-Controlled Television.” Journal of Politics 81 (3): 982–96.
Shadmehr, Mehdi, and Dan Bernhardt. 2015. “State Censorship.” American Economic Journal: Microeconomics 7 (2): 280–307.
Simpser, Alberto. 2013. Why Governments and Parties Manipulate Elections: Theory, Practice, and Implications. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Spooner, Mary Helen. 1999. Soldiers in a Narrow Land: The Pinochet Regime in Chile. Berkeley: University
of California Press.
Svolik, Milan W. 2012. The Politics of Authoritarian Rule. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Sutton, Jonathan, Charles R. Butcher, and Isak Svensson. 2014. “Explaining Political Jiu-Jitsu: InstitutionBuilding and the Outcomes of Regime Violence against Unarmed Protests.” Journal of Peace
Research 51 (5): 559–73.
Treisman, Daniel. 2015. “Income, Democracy, and Leader Turnover.” American Journal of Political
Science 59 (4): 927–42.
Ulfelder, Jay. 2015. “It’s Getting Better All the Time.” Foreign Policy, November 24, 2015. http://
foreignpolicy.com/2015/11/24/its-getting-better-all-the-time-human-rights/.
Ulfelder, Jay, and Benjamin Valentino. 2008. “Assessing Risks of State-Sponsored Mass Killing.” http://
ssrn.com/abstract=1703426.
Wintrobe, Ronald. 1990. “The Tinpot and the Totalitarian: An Economic Theory of Dictatorship.”
American Political Science Review 84 (3): 849–72.

This article has been cited by:
1. Mario F. Carillo. 2022. Fascistville: Mussolini’s new towns and the persistence of neo-fascism. Journal
of Economic Growth 27:4, 527-567. [Crossref]
2. Daniel S. Leon. 2022. Do international rents bolster democratic backsliding under populist
governments? Evidence from Latin America. International Area Studies Review 25:4, 280-302.
[Crossref]
3. Shouzhi Xia. 2022. Amusing Ourselves to Loyalty? Entertainment, Propaganda, and Regime Resilience
in China. Political Research Quarterly 75:4, 1096-1112. [Crossref]
4. Yuqing Feng, Yu Zeng. 2022. Stability justice: Petitioners versus non‐petitioners in China 's criminal
adjudication. Law & Society Review 56:4, 555-579. [Crossref]
5. Vladimir Gel’man. 2022. Exogenous shock and Russian studies. Post-Soviet Affairs 773, 1-9. [Crossref]
6. Alexander Libman. 2022. Credibility revolution and the future of Russian studies. Post-Soviet Affairs
36, 1-10. [Crossref]
7. Michael McDevitt, Perry Parks, Stephanie Craft. 2022. An Overdue Contribution: Mass
Communication Theory in the Security of Democracy. Mass Communication and Society 25:6,
747-763. [Crossref]
8. Ceren Baysan. 2022. Persistent Polarizing Effects of Persuasion: Experimental Evidence from Turkey.
American Economic Review 112:11, 3528-3546. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with links]
9. Fei Li, Yangbo Song, Mofei Zhao. 2022. Global manipulation by local obfuscation. Journal of Economic
Theory 83, 105575. [Crossref]
10. Koray Saglam. 2022. The digital blender: conceptualizing the political economic nexus of digital
technologies and authoritarian practices. Globalizations 5, 1-18. [Crossref]
11. Quintin H. Beazer, Charles D. Crabtree, Christopher J. Fariss, Holger L. Kern. 2022. When Do
Private Actors Engage in Censorship? Evidence From a Correspondence Experiment with Russian
Private Media Firms. British Journal of Political Science 52:4, 1790-1809. [Crossref]
12. Luis R. Martínez. 2022. How Much Should We Trust the Dictator’s GDP Growth Estimates?. Journal
of Political Economy 130:10, 2731-2769. [Crossref]
13. Nikita Khokhlov, Andrey Korotayev. 2022. Internet, Political Regime and Terrorism: A Quantitative
Analysis. Cross-Cultural Research 56:4, 385-418. [Crossref]
14. Sascha O. Becker, Sharun Mukand, Ivan Yotzov. 2022. Persecution, pogroms and genocide: A
conceptual framework and new evidence. Explorations in Economic History 86, 101471. [Crossref]
15. Adam Przeworski. 2022. Formal Models of Authoritarian Regimes: A Critique. Perspectives on Politics
12, 1-10. [Crossref]
16. Benjamin Toettoe, Diya Jiang. 2022. Foreign contributors to democratic backsliding: the effects of
linkages with China on media self-Censorship in transitional regimes. Canadian Foreign Policy Journal
2, 1-18. [Crossref]
17. Irina Busygina, Stanislav Klimovich. 2022. Pandemic Decentralization: COVID-19 and Principal–
Agent Relations in Russia. Problems of Post-Communism 6, 1-12. [Crossref]
18. EDMUND J. MALESKY, JASON DOUGLAS TODD, ANH TRAN. 2022. Can Elections Motivate
Responsiveness in a Single-Party Regime? Experimental Evidence from Vietnam. American Political
Science Review 2, 1-21. [Crossref]
19. Sergei Guriev, Elias Papaioannou. 2022. The Political Economy of Populism. Journal of Economic
Literature 60:3, 753-832. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with links]

20. Stephen Thomson, Eric C. Ip, Shing Fung Lee. 2022. International comparisons of COVID-19
case and mortality data and the effectiveness of non-pharmaceutical interventions: a plea for
reconsideration. Journal of Biosocial Science 54:5, 735-741. [Crossref]
21. Aytuğ Şaşmaz, Alper H. Yagci, Daniel Ziblatt. 2022. How Voters Respond to Presidential Assaults
on Checks and Balances: Evidence from a Survey Experiment in Turkey. Comparative Political Studies
55:11, 1947-1980. [Crossref]
22. Pavin Chachavalpongpun. 2022. Nationhood in the Cloud: Cyber Sovereignty in Thailand. Asian
Studies Review 23, 1-20. [Crossref]
23. Jan Menzner, Richard Traunmüller. 2022. Subjective Freedom of Speech: Why Do Citizens Think
They Cannot Speak Freely?. Politische Vierteljahresschrift 47. . [Crossref]
24. DENIS STUKAL, SERGEY SANOVICH, RICHARD BONNEAU, JOSHUA A. TUCKER. 2022.
Why Botter: How Pro-Government Bots Fight Opposition in Russia. American Political Science Review
116:3, 843-857. [Crossref]
25. Bakhytzhan Kurmanov, Colin Knox. 2022. Open government and citizen empowerment in
authoritarian states. Journal of Eurasian Studies 13:2, 156-171. [Crossref]
26. Cristina Corduneanu-Huci, Alexander Hamilton. 2022. Selective Control: The Political Economy of
Censorship. Political Communication 39:4, 517-538. [Crossref]
27. Pál Susánszky, Ákos Kopper, Frank T. Zsigó. 2022. Media framing of political protests – reporting
bias and the discrediting of political activism. Post-Soviet Affairs 38:4, 312-328. [Crossref]
28. Shouzhi Xia, Huang Huang, Dong Zhang. 2022. Framing as an Information Control Strategy in
Times of Crisis. Journal of East Asian Studies 22:2, 255-279. [Crossref]
29. Eddy S. F. Yeung. 2022. Overestimation of the Level of Democracy Among Citizens in
Nondemocracies. Comparative Political Studies 64, 001041402210896. [Crossref]
30. Alberto Batinti, Jeffrey Kopstein. 2022. Is Russia really a normal country? A numerical taxonomy of
Russia in comparative perspective. Constitutional Political Economy 33:2, 217-232. [Crossref]
31. Stephen L. Parente, Luis Felipe Sáenz, Anna Seim. 2022. Income, education and democracy. Journal
of Economic Growth 27:2, 193-233. [Crossref]
32. Maxim Alyukov. 2022. Propaganda, authoritarianism and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Nature Human
Behaviour 6:6, 763-765. [Crossref]
33. Simone Chambers, Jeffrey Kopstein. 2022. Wrecking the public sphere: The new authoritarians’
digital attack on pluralism and truth. Constellations 5. . [Crossref]
34. Mai Hassan, Daniel Mattingly, Elizabeth R. Nugent. 2022. Political Control. Annual Review of Political
Science 25:1, 155-174. [Crossref]
35. Tom Paskhalis, Bryn Rosenfeld, Katerina Tertytchnaya. 2022. Independent media under pressure:
evidence from Russia. Post-Soviet Affairs 38:3, 155-174. [Crossref]
36. Gulnaz Sharafutdinova. 2022. Public Opinion Formation and Group Identity: The Politics of National
Identity Salience in Post-Crimea Russia. Problems of Post-Communism 69:3, 219-231. [Crossref]
37. Bryan James Nakayama. 2022. Information vs the cyberspace domain. Journal of Cyber Policy 7:2,
213-229. [Crossref]
38. Scott Radnitz. 2022. Perceived threats and the trade-off between security and human rights. Journal
of Peace Research 59:3, 367-381. [Crossref]
39. Robert S. Hinck. 2022. US Hypocrisy and the End of American Exceptionalism? Narratives of the
January 6th Attack on the US Capitol From Illiberal National Media. American Behavioral Scientist
10, 000276422210963. [Crossref]

40. Ole Bruun, Olivier Rubin. 2022. Authoritarian Environmentalism—Captured Collaboration in
Vietnamese Water Management. Environmental Management 234. . [Crossref]
41. Kevin K. W. Ip. 2022. When (Not) to Trade with Autocrats: Complicity, Exploitation, and Human
Rights. Moral Philosophy and Politics 9:1, 69-88. [Crossref]
42. Yu Zeng, Stan Hok-wui Wong. 2022. Social media, fear, and support for state surveillance: The case
of China’s social credit system. China Information 6, 0920203X2210881. [Crossref]
43. Jennifer Pan, Zijie Shao, Yiqing Xu. 2022. How government-controlled media shifts policy attitudes
through framing. Political Science Research and Methods 10:2, 317-332. [Crossref]
44. Huirong Chen, Sheena Chestnut Greitens. 2022. Information capacity and social order: The local
politics of information integration in China. Governance 35:2, 497-523. [Crossref]
45. Greg Chih-Hsin Sheen, Hans H. Tung, Wen-Chin Wu. 2022. Power Sharing and Media Freedom
in Dictatorships. Political Communication 39:2, 202-221. [Crossref]
46. Thung-Hong Lin, Min-Chiao Chang, Chun-Chih Chang, Ya-Hsuan Chou. 2022. Governmentsponsored disinformation and the severity of respiratory infection epidemics including COVID-19: A
global analysis, 2001–2020. Social Science & Medicine 296, 114744. [Crossref]
47. Hamed Ghoddusi, Hussein Moghaddam, Franz Wirl. 2022. Going downstream – An economical
option for oil and gas exporting countries?. Energy Policy 161, 112487. [Crossref]
48. Constantine Boussalis, Alexander Dukalskis, Johannes Gerschewski. 2022. Why It Matters What
Autocrats Say: Assessing Competing Theories of Propaganda. Problems of Post-Communism 130,
1-12. [Crossref]
49. David Karpa, Torben Klarl, Michael Rochlitz. Artificial Intelligence, Surveillance, and Big Data
145-172. [Crossref]
50. Vlad Kravtsov. Personalistic Regimes and the Processes of Governance 1-39. [Crossref]
51. Vlad Kravtsov. Providing Goods: Health Mandates and Authoritarian Performance 41-78. [Crossref]
52. Vlad Kravtsov. Securitizing the Epidemic: Ideological Adaptations and Illiberal Meanings 153-188.
[Crossref]
53. Giray Gozgor. 2022. The role of economic uncertainty in the rise of EU populism. Public Choice
190:1-2, 229-246. [Crossref]
54. Maxim Ananyev, Michael Poyker. 2022. Do dictators signal strength with electoral fraud?. European
Journal of Political Economy 71, 102075. [Crossref]
55. 懐 懐懐. 2022. 懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐懐. Japanese Journal of Comparative Economics 59:1, 1_1-1_12. [Crossref]
56. Changyong Choi, Sang Hoon Jee. 2021. Differential Effects of Information and Communication
Technology on (De-) Democratization of Authoritarian Regimes. International Studies Quarterly 65:4,
1163-1175. [Crossref]
57. Quy-Toan Do, Nicolas Gomez-Parra, Bob Rijkers. Transnational Terrorism and the Internet 0, .
[Crossref]
58. Philipp M. Lutscher. 2021. Hot topics: Denial-of-Service attacks on news websites in autocracies.
Political Science Research and Methods Online First, 1-16. [Crossref]
59. Charles H. Anderton, Jurgen Brauer. 2021. Mass Atrocities and Their Prevention. Journal of Economic
Literature 59:4, 1240-1292. [Abstract] [View PDF article] [PDF with links]
60. Vadim S. Balashov, Yuxing Yan, Xiaodi Zhu. 2021. Using the Newcomb–Benford law to study the
association between a country’s COVID-19 reporting accuracy and its development. Scientific Reports
11:1. . [Crossref]
61. Laura Howells, Laura A. Henry. 2021. Varieties of Digital Authoritarianism. Communist and PostCommunist Studies 54:4, 1-27. [Crossref]

62. Janet Elise Johnson, Alexandra Novitskaya, Valerie Sperling, Lisa McIntosh Sundstrom. 2021. Mixed
signals: what Putin says about gender equality. Post-Soviet Affairs 37:6, 507-525. [Crossref]
63. Irina Busygina, Mikhail Filippov. 2021. Russia, Post-Soviet Integration, and the EAEU: The Balance
between Domination and Cooperation. Problems of Post-Communism 68:6, 477-486. [Crossref]
64. SELIM ERDEM AYTAÇ. 2021. Effectiveness of Incumbent’s Strategic Communication during
Economic Crisis under Electoral Authoritarianism: Evidence from Turkey. American Political Science
Review 115:4, 1517-1523. [Crossref]
65. Marco Ehrl, Robert Hinck. 2021. Solving Egypt’s Economic Crisis: The Strategic Role of Chinese,
Russian, and Egyptian Media Narratives. International Journal of Strategic Communication 15:5,
504-525. [Crossref]
66. Lawrence P. Markowitz, Scott Radnitz. 2021. Studying states and regimes in Central Asia:
contributions to comparative politics and future challenges. Central Asian Survey 40:4, 576-591.
[Crossref]
67. Stan Hok-Wui Wong, Jiachen Liang. 2021. Attraction or Distraction? Impacts of Pro-regime Social
Media Comments on Chinese Netizens. Political Behavior 74. . [Crossref]
68. Natalia Lamberova. 2021. The puzzling politics of R&D: Signaling competence through risky
projects. Journal of Comparative Economics 49:3, 801-818. [Crossref]
69. Maxim Alyukov. 2021. News reception and authoritarian control in a hybrid media system: Russian
TV viewers and the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Politics 22, 026339572110414. [Crossref]
70. Jean-Paul Carvalho. 2021. Markets and communities: the social cost of the meritocracy. Journal of
Institutional Economics 29, 1-19. [Crossref]
71. Timothy Frye, Brian D. Taylor, Will Pyle, Klaus Segbers, Gulnaz Sharafutdinovae. 2021. Roundtable
on Gulnaz Sharafutdinova’s the red mirror: putin’s leadership and russia’s insecure identity. Post-Soviet
Affairs 37:4, 404-412. [Crossref]
72. Ihsan Yilmaz, Omer F. Erturk. 2021. Populism, violence and authoritarian stability: necropolitics in
Turkey. Third World Quarterly 42:7, 1524-1543. [Crossref]
73. Ahmad Kilani. 2021. Authoritarian regimes' propensity to manipulate Covid-19 data: a statistical
analysis using Benford's Law. Commonwealth & Comparative Politics 59:3, 319-333. [Crossref]
74. Stan Hok-Wui Wong, Jiachen Liang. 2021. Dubious until officially censored: Effects of online
censorship exposure on viewers’ attitudes in authoritarian regimes. Journal of Information Technology
& Politics 18:3, 310-323. [Crossref]
75. Sven Daniel Wolfe. 2021. Blogging the Virtual: New Geographies of Domination and Resistance In
and Beyond Russia. Antipode 53:4, 1251-1269. [Crossref]
76. Raphael Boleslavsky, Mehdi Shadmehr, Konstantin Sonin. 2021. Media Freedom in the Shadow of a
Coup. Journal of the European Economic Association 19:3, 1782-1815. [Crossref]
77. Ye Wang, Stan Hok-Wui Wong. 2021. Electoral impacts of a failed uprising: Evidence from Hong
Kong's Umbrella Movement. Electoral Studies 71, 102336. [Crossref]
78. Gabriele Cosentino. 2021. ‘You can’t arrest a virus’: The freedom of expression crisis within Egypt’s
response to COVID-19. Journal of African Media Studies 13:2, 207-220. [Crossref]
79. Nikolai Topornin, Darya Pyatkina, Yuri Bokov. 2021. Government regulation of the Internet as
instrument of digital protectionism in case of developing countries. Journal of Information Science 10,
016555152110141. [Crossref]
80. Georgy Egorov, Konstantin Sonin. 2021. Elections in Non-Democracies. The Economic Journal
131:636, 1682-1716. [Crossref]

81. Christoph Valentin Steinert. 2021. Who Is a Political Prisoner?. Journal of Global Security Studies
6:3. . [Crossref]
82. Stephan Haggard, Robert Kaufman. Backsliding 83, . [Crossref]
83. Sergei Guriev. Political Economy of Transition Reforms 331-352. [Crossref]
84. Gustav Feichtinger, Andreas Novak, Franz Wirl. Institutional Change, Education, and Population
Growth: Lessons from Dynamic Modelling 37-56. [Crossref]
85. Linda Glawe, Helmut Wagner. Current Challenges 289-341. [Crossref]
86. Henry Farrell, Abraham L. Newman. 2021. The Janus Face of the Liberal International Information
Order: When Global Institutions Are Self-Undermining. International Organization 75:2, 333-358.
[Crossref]
87. Andrei Aleinikov, Daria Maltseva, Vladimir Miletskiy, Olga Safonova, Aleksandr Strebkov. 2021.
Conflict potential of risk reflexivity: information management under the conditions of pandemic. E3S
Web of Conferences 311, 04010. [Crossref]
88. Daria Maltseva, Olga Safonova, Anastasia Dedul, Maria Petrunina, Sofia Tepina. 2021. Youth policy
in the human capital management system: Russian practice. E3S Web of Conferences 311, 08014.
[Crossref]
89. James P. Choy. 2020. Kompromat: A theory of blackmail as a system of governance. Journal of
Development Economics 147, 102535. [Crossref]
90. Sergei Guriev, Daniel Treisman. 2020. The Popularity of Authoritarian Leaders. World Politics 72:4,
601-638. [Crossref]
91. Alessandro Belmonte, Michael Rochlitz. 2020. Collective memories, propaganda and authoritarian
political support. Economic Systems 44:3, 100771. [Crossref]
92. Eda Keremoğlu, Nils B. Weidmann. 2020. How Dictators Control the Internet: A Review Essay.
Comparative Political Studies 53:10-11, 1690-1703. [Crossref]
93. Davide Cantoni. 2020. China und Hongkong am Scheideweg. Perspektiven der Wirtschaftspolitik 21:2,
185-196. [Crossref]
94. Maria Marino, Paolo Li Donni, Sebastiano Bavetta, Marco Cellini. 2020. The democratization
process: An empirical appraisal of the role of political protest. European Journal of Political Economy
63, 101881. [Crossref]
95. Sergei Guriev, Daniel Treisman. 2020. A theory of informational autocracy. Journal of Public
Economics 186, 104158. [Crossref]
96. Margaret E. Roberts. 2020. Resilience to Online Censorship. Annual Review of Political Science 23:1,
401-419. [Crossref]
97. Maria Snegovaya. 2020. Guns to butter: sociotropic concerns and foreign policy preferences in Russia.
Post-Soviet Affairs 36:3, 268-279. [Crossref]
98. Sergei Guriev, Elias Papaioannou. 2020. The Political Economy of Populism. SSRN Electronic Journal
105. . [Crossref]
99. Dan Cao, Roger Lagunoff. 2020. The Dynamics of Property Rights and Consent in Autocracies.
SSRN Electronic Journal 29. . [Crossref]
100. JunHyeok Jang. 2020. Violation of Bright Lines, Term Limit Evasion and Information Control. SSRN
Electronic Journal 24. . [Crossref]
101. Charles Angelucci, Andrea Prat. 2020. Measuring Voters' Knowledge of Political News. SSRN
Electronic Journal 31. . [Crossref]

102. Maja Adena, Ruben Enikolopov, Maria Petrova, Hans-Joachim Voth. 2020. Bombs, Broadcasts and
Resistance: Allied Intervention and Domestic Opposition to the Nazi Regime During World War II.
SSRN Electronic Journal 78. . [Crossref]
103. Vadim S. Balashov, Yuxing Yan, Xiaodi Zhu. 2020. Are Less Developed Countries More Likely to
Manipulate Data During Pandemics? Evidence from Newcomb-Benford Law. SSRN Electronic Journal
19. . [Crossref]
104. Georgy Egorov, Konstantin Sonin. 2019. Persuasion on Networks. SSRN Electronic Journal 78. .
[Crossref]
105. Selcen Çakır. 2019. Choosing Your Pond: A Structural Model of Political Power Sharing. SSRN
Electronic Journal 100. . [Crossref]
106. Fei Li, Yangbo Song, Mofei Zhao. 2019. Global Manipulation by Local Obfuscation: Information
Design in Coordination Games. SSRN Electronic Journal 106. . [Crossref]
107. Luis R. Martinez. 2017. How Much Should We Trust the Dictator's GDP Estimates?. SSRN
Electronic Journal 44. . [Crossref]

