Information quality and regime change:
Evidence from the lab*
Leif Helland

Felipe S. Iachan

Ragnar E. Juelsrud§

Plamen T. Nenov¶

Abstract
We experimentally test the effects of information quality in a global game of regime
change. The game features a payoff structure such that more dispersed private information induces agents to attack more often and reduces regime stability in the Bayesian
Nash Equilibrium. We show that subjects in the lab do not play as predicted by equilibrium theory. Instead, more dispersed information makes subjects more cautious,
increasing regime stability. We show that this finding is consistent with a modified
global game model in which agents engage in level-k thinking. In the level-k model,
information quality affects agents’ actions through a novel channel, that enables a
strategic attenuation effect. As information quality worsens, strategic complementarities between different level-k types weaken, generating a force that is capable of
reversing the comparative statics from the equilibrium model.
Keywords: global games, information quality, level-k thinking, across-type strategic
complementarity, finite mixture model.
JEL Codes: C72, C9, D82, D9
* We would like to thank the Editor, Sudipta Sarangi, and two anonymous referees for comments that

greatly improved the paper. We also thank Frank Heinemann, Nagore Iriberri, Terri Kneeland, participants
at the 9th International Conference of the French Society for Experimental Economics and the 2018 ESA
World Meeting for useful comments and suggestions. This research was financed by the Research Council of
Norway, grant 250506 and, in part, by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nı́vel Superior Brasil (CAPES) - Finance Code 001. This paper should not be reported as representing the views of Norges
Bank. The views expressed are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Norges Bank.
 BI Norwegian Business School, e-mail: leif.helland@bi.no@bi.no (corresponding author).
FGV EPGE, e-mail: felipe.iachan@fgv.br
§
Norges Bank, e-mail: ragnar@juelsrud.no.
¶ BI Norwegian Business School, e-mail: plamen.nenov@bi.no.

1

Introduction

Global games of regime change are commonly used to analyze important economic phenomena involving elements of coordination, such as currency crises, bank runs, and political
change.1 A central question in this literature is how information quality – the precision of
agents’ private information – affects the probability of a successfully coordinated attack.
Understanding the particular role of information quality is important from both theoretical
and applied perspectives. For example, in contexts such as speculative currency attacks or
debt rollover crises, it can inform policymakers about the likely effects of various disclosure
policies on financial stability.
In this paper we experimentally test how a change in private information precision affects
regime stability in a standard global game of regime change. Specifically, we let several
groups of subjects play a series of games, in which they take binary decisions – attack or
not attack. Each subject’s payoff from attacking depends on both an underlying state and
the actions of the other subjects in the group. If a sufficient number of agents choose to
attack (given the value of the underlying state), then all attacking agents obtain a discretely
higher payoff relative to not attacking. In addition, the higher the value of the state, the
higher the payoff gain from a successful attack.2 Finally, subjects obtain private signals
about the underlying state with some noise. We set up the payoffs of subjects to correspond
to the literature on speculative currency attacks, where theory predicts that higher private
information dispersion makes agents more likely to attack in equilibrium, decreasing regime
stability (Heinemann and Illing, 2002, Iachan and Nenov, 2015).3 In this setting, we compare
subjects’ behavior in two treatments: one where private information dispersion is low (“Low
1

See Morris and Shin (1998) for currency crises, Rochet and Vives (2004) and Goldstein and Pauzner
(2005) for bank runs, and Edmond (2013) for political change.
2
Therefore, a higher state in our abstract game can be interpreted as a lower value of a common economic
fundamental.
3
In general, the effect of a change in private information dispersion on regime stability is ambiguous
and depends on the payoff structure that is generated by the underlying economic environment (Iachan and
Nenov, 2015). To provide a clear theoretical prediction to test in a laboratory setting, we opt for a specific
payoff structure that leads to the aforementioned comparative static.

2

Noise treatment”) and one where the information dispersion is high (“High Noise treatment”).
The observed behavior in both treatments is consistent with subjects following cutoff
strategies – attacking whenever their private signal is above a specific value – as predicted
by the theory. However, contrary to the equilibrium prediction described above, subjects
tend to play according to cutoff strategies with lower cutoffs in the Low Noise treatment
compared to the High Noise treatment. This is true both for individual subject cutoffs,
which tend to follow a distribution that is shifted to the right in the High Noise treatment
relative to the Low Noise treatment, as well as for average cutoffs across groups, which tend
to be lower in the Low Noise treatment compared to the High Noise treatment. Therefore,
in a lab environment, noisier private information makes agents less, not more, aggressive,
contradicting the baseline equilibrium theory.
We then argue that a theoretical framework in which players have limited depth of
reasoning is both qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with our main experimental
result. In particular, we focus on one specific non-equilibrium theory that has received recent
experimental and theoretical attention in the literature on global games and informational
frictions (Kneeland, 2016, Angeletos and Lian, 2017): level-k thinking (Nagel, 1995; Stahl
and Wilson, 1995).4 Models of level-k thinking assume that agents have limited depth of
reasoning and, at the same time, provide a specific structure to agents’ beliefs. Despite
this deviation from the equilibrium theory, agents still follow cutoff strategies, similar to the
equilibrium model. Moreover, agents with higher depth of reasoning (higher level-k types)
play according to cutoff strategies that are closer to the equilibrium cutoff, compared to
agents with lower depth of reasoning (lower level-k types), whose behavior is influenced by
the perceived play of a fictitious and fully behavioral L0 type. In that sense, the level-k
global games model naturally extends to the equilibrium global games model to incorporate
possible bounded rationality in the behavior by experimental subjects.
We show, however, that this departure from equilibrium play can significantly alter the
4
An overview of models and evidence of non-equilibrium strategic thinking is provided in Crawford,
Costa-Gomes, and Iriberri (2013).

3

prediction of the standard global games model. Specifically, with level-k thinking, the effect
of more dispersed information on agents’ actions and regime stability can be reversed for
low level-k types, compared to the equilibrium model and consistent with the experimental
results. Intuitively, with level-k thinking, different cognitive types have different strategic
cutoffs. At the same time, there is a strategic complementarity across subsequent level-k
types, which anchors the aggressiveness of a specific cognitive type to that of the preceding
cognitive type. Therefore, an aggressive agent with relatively low depth of reasoning, makes
the cognitive type above her more aggressive, which in turn increases the aggressiveness of
the subsequent cognitive type, and so on.
In that environment, higher information dispersion acts to attenuate the across-type
strategic complementarity and de-anchor the behavior of different cognitive types. This
is because more dispersed information makes agents less coordinated when attacking and
reduces their ability to forecast the actions of other agents, thus flattening the best response
function that links an agent’s strategic cutoff to the strategic cutoff that she believes other
players are using. Therefore, whenever lower cognitive types are relatively more aggressive,
the de-anchoring induced by more dispersed private information acts towards reducing the
higher cognitive types’ willingness to attack. We call this de-anchoring effect of information
dispersion strategic attenuation. If the strategic attenuation effect is strong enough, some
cognitive types actually become less aggressive with higher information dispersion.
To assess whether the level-k model is quantitatively consistent with our experimental
findings, we follow Kneeland (2016) and structurally estimate a finite mixture model of play
with different level-k types, using data from both treatments. We make two assumptions
that allow the novel strategic attenuation effect to play a countervailing role and to be quantitatively relevant. First, and in line with previous work on global games with level-k types
(Kneeland, 2016), we assume that L0 types play more aggressively than uniform randomization.5 Second, we allow for risk aversion by assuming that agents have constant relative
5
Assuming that L0 types randomize uniformly in a global game leads to the global game equilibrium
prediction (see e.g. Morris and Shin (2003)). Therefore, global games models with level-k agents, such as

4

risk aversion (CRRA) preferences over payoffs obtained in each decision round and jointly
estimate the coefficient of relative risk aversion together with the other model parameters.6
In our baseline structural estimation, we estimate a common distribution of level-k types
for both treatments, assuming fixed play by L0 types across the treatments. Therefore, our
results are not driven by variation in L0 types’ perceived play or different distributions of
the level-k types across the two treatments but are purely due to the effect of information
dispersion on actions in our modified level-k model.
We estimate a large share (around 73%) of level-k types, which results in a weightedaverage of strategic cutoffs in both treatments in line with the estimated average cutoffs
in the experiment. A caveat for comparing these averaged cutoffs is that they do not incorporate trembles, which our estimated model allows for. We therefore use our estimated
model to simulate the outcomes of many sessions for each of the two treatments. Around
98% of our simulated sessions result in a negative cutoff difference, with around 15% of simulated sessions having a cutoff difference equal to or larger (in magnitude) than the average
cutoff difference in the experimental data. Therefore, our structural estimation shows that
a level-k model, augmented with relatively aggressive L0 types and risk averse agents can
quantitatively explain the observed differences in the strategic cutoffs in our experiment.

Related literature
We next detail our contribution relative to the experimental literature on global games.
Initial coordination experiments focused on static games with complete information (Cooper,
DeJong, Forsythe, and Ross, 1990, 1992; Straub, 1995; Van Huyck, Battalio, and Beil, 1990).
Kneeland (2016) assume that L0 types deviate from uniform randomization. Moreover, as us, Kneeland
(2016) assumes that L0 types play more aggressively than uniform randomization, in line with the literature
on experimental coordination games which shows that initial play tends to be biased towards the payoff
dominant actions.
6
Allowing for some risk aversion helps match the level of strategic cutoffs across treatments. Risk aversion
on its own cannot reverse the comparative statics in a standard global game model, since it only weakens
the equilibrium effect of information dispersion in that model. Furthermore, we estimate a coefficient of
relative risk aversion of 0.48, which is broadly in line with other studies estimating risk attitudes based on
data from experimental games, individual decision making experiments, as well as field studies. See Section
5.2 for further discussion.

5

Such games have multiple equilibria and strategic uncertainty comes to the forefront. As
a response to this indeterminacy, the theory of global games was initially developed by
Carlsson and van Damme (1993). The theory was later advanced by Morris and Shin (1998)
to macroeconomic applications. The global games framework provides an explicit model
of strategic uncertainty. It shows that coordination games with multiple equilibria under
complete information may have a unique equilibrium if certain parameters of the payoff
function are private information instead of common knowledge.
Much of the experimental literature on global games has focused on comparing the effects of private versus public (or common) information. Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels
(2004) tests the predictions of the theory of global games under both private and public
information.7 In the unique global games equilibrium agents use monotone cutoff strategies.
Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) show that subjects tend to use such strategies, both
under public and private information.8,9 Moreover, and contrary to the standard theory, they
show that subjects are more coordinated under public information and play strategies close
to the payoff-dominant equilibrium. Cabrales, Nagel, and Armenter (2007) test the global
games theory in a series of two-person games with a simplified information structure. The
design ensures that equilibrium is reached after only four rounds of elimination of (interim)
strictly dominated strategies. Similar to Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004), they find
7

There is a rich experimental follow up literature. Duffy and Ochs (2012), Shurchkov (2013), and
Shurchkov (2016) study coordination experimentally in dynamic global games. Heinemann and Moradi
(2018) provide conditions for a unique equilibrium where agents follow a sunspot announcement depending
on the realization of an informative private signal, and compare this equilibrium to a global games equilibrium in an experiment. They find that observed behavior converges to the global games equilibrium in
the majority of groups, while one third of the groups coordinate on the sunspot equilibrium. Heinemann
(2018) solves for the global games selection with asymmetric players, and runs treatments with symmetric
and asymmetric players in an experiment. He finds that the global-games selection predicts actions well
with symmetric players but fails miserably with asymmetric players.
8
As in that paper, we also find that agents use monotone cutoff strategies. Widespread use of monotone,
or near monotone, cutoff strategies has also been documented in a broader class of global games experiments
(Cornand and Heinemann, 2014; Avoyan, 2017; Szkup and Trevino, 2020). Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels
(2009) develop a method to measure strategic uncertainty as an alternative to varying the parameters of the
game exogenously. They also find widespread use of cutoff strategies. Heggedal, Helland, and Joslin (2018)
find widespread use of cutoff strategies in a coordination game with type uncertainty rather than uncertainty
about fundamentals.
9
Cornand (2006) expands on Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) by demonstrating that public
information is stabilizing in an experiment using a currency attack game.

6

that subjects converge to the unique global games equilibrium under private information,
but that under public information they tend to play closer to the payoff-dominant equilibrium. We complement these papers by comparing how different levels of private information
quality affect experimental play in a global game of regime change, thus testing a different
prediction of the theory of global games compared to this previous literature.10,11
Kneeland (2016) analyses global games in which agents engage in level-k thinking as a way
of rationalizing the findings in Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004). Using experimental
data from Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004), she shows that the level-k model fits
the data better than the fully rational model. Relative to her paper, we provide a novel
prediction on the effect of changes in information dispersion on different cognitive types’
strategic cutoffs and show experimental support for this prediction.12
In a recent contribution, Szkup and Trevino (2020) also consider an experimental setting
in which the precision of private signals varies across treatments. Like us, they find that
the comparative statics are reversed relative to what the theory predicts. To explain the
reversal in the theoretical comparative statics Szkup and Trevino (2020) argue that there
is a link between players’ perception of strategic uncertainty and fundamental uncertainty.
They propose a “sentiment theory”, where as fundamental uncertainty increases, players also
become more pessimistic about the actions of others.
We complement Szkup and Trevino (2020) along several dimensions. First, we differ
in the experimental setting. Specifically, they investigate a two-player investment game
similar to Carlsson and van Damme (1993), while we consider a larger coordination game of
regime change. Second, and more importantly, we explain the reversed comparative statics
with a theory based on bounded rationality and limited depth of reasoning. In that theory,
10
If one is to interpret public information in experimental global games as a situation with (arbitrarily) precise private information, then the findings in Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) and Cabrales, Nagel,
and Armenter (2007) that agents tend to play more aggressively under public information are consistent
with our experimental findings.
11
For further analysis of the effects of precision in public signals see Baeriswyl and Cornand (2016), and
for relative precision of private and public signals see Dale and Morgan (2012).
12
Cornand and Heinemann (2014) analyze the relative weighting of public and private signals in a global
game by a k-level model and a cognitive hierarchy model.

7

we identify a novel effect of information quality on agents’ actions, which is absent in the
equilibrium model. We then evaluate the ability of this theory to explain the data.

2

Information quality and the payoff sensitivity effect

We consider a regime-change game that can serve as a simple representation of the strategic
interactions involved in currency crises (Morris and Shin, 1998), debt rollover (Rochet and
Vives, 2004, Goldstein and Pauzner, 2005), and political change (Edmond, 2013). We follow
the notation from Iachan and Nenov (2015), with a few modifications necessary for the
experimental test of the effect of information dispersion on players’ actions and regime
stability. Most importantly, we assume that there is a discrete number N of players.
Agents take a binary action si ∈ {0, 1} simultaneously. We interpret si = 1 as player
P
i attacking the status quo. We let Z =
i si denote the number of agents who choose
si = 1. A state variable Y (the fundamentals) determines agents’ payoffs, and also the
minimal number of agents required for a successful attack. We assume that Y is distributed
uniformly on [0, M ], for M > 0 and is not directly observed by agents, who hold this
distribution as their prior belief about the state.
Regime change occurs if at least a fraction g (Y ) of agents attack, where g (·) is a decreasing function of the fundamentals.13 We define GN (Y ) ≡ bg (Y ) N c, so that regime
change occurs if, and only if, Z ≥ GN (Y ). We assume that the net payoff to a player from
choosing si = 1 over si = 0 is D(Y ) in case of regime change and U (Y ) in case of status quo
survival. We assume that D (Y ) > 0 and U (Y ) < 0 and that both are either constant or
strictly increasing in Y . As a consequence, actions are strategic complements.
Before choosing actions, agents observe noisy signals about the state Y . Specifically, we
assume that player i observes a signal xi = Y + ηi , where ηi ’s are distributed uniformly on
13

Therefore, higher Y means weaker fundamentals in this setting. Furthermore, to ensure equilibrium
uniqueness, we assume that there exist upper and lower dominance regions of the following form: There
exists a Y ∈ (0, M ) and a Y ∈ (0, M ), such that for Y < Y , g (Y ) > 1 and for Y > Y , g (Y ) < 0. For
Y ∈ Y , Y , g (Y ) ∈ (0, 1).

8

[−, ],  > 0, and   M . The draws of ηi are independent across players and, also, independent of the realization of Y . We denote the expectation with respect to the information
set of an agent that receives signal xi by Exi [·].
Equilibrium. The definition of a Bayesian Nash Equilibrium for our game is standard (see
Morris and Shin (2003)). We restrict attention to equilibria in monotone strategies. A
monotone strategy Y ∗ is such that s (xi ) = 1 iff xi > Y ∗ . In that case it is straightforward
to apply standard results from global games to show that there is a unique equilibrium.
Furthermore, the restriction is without loss of generality (Morris and Shin, 2003).
We call the critical value Y ∗ the strategic cutoff. Note that for a given value Y ∗ in the
finite-player case, the number of players who observe a signal above Y ∗ and thus choose
si = 1 is stochastic. Given a value of the fundamental Y , with signals uniformly distributed
on the interval [Y − , Y + ], the probability that at least K players get a signal above Y ∗
is given by the tail distribution of a Binomial random variable

F N (K, Y, Y ∗ ) =

N
X





 N 
k
N −k
∗
∗

 p (Y, Y , ) (1 − p (Y, Y , ))
k
k≥K

(1)

where
Y +−Y∗
p (Y, Y , ) = min max 0,
2
∗








,1

(2)

Therefore, the probability of regime change given a state Y is

P (Y, Y ∗ ) ≡ F N (GN (Y ), Y, Y ∗ )

(3)

Note that P (Y, Y ∗ ) = 1 for Y ≥ Y ∗ +  and P (Y, Y ∗ ) = 0 for Y ≤ Y ∗ − . It is also
convenient to define the probability of regime change for a player that attacks (si = 1). We
define this probability by P̃ (Y, Y ∗ ). Specifically, a player that attacks expects regime change

9

to occur if at least GN − 1 of the remaining N − 1 other players attack, which gives
P̃ (Y, Y ∗ ) ≡ F N −1 (GN (Y ) − 1, Y, Y ∗ )

(4)

Given this probability of regime change, Y ∗ is determined by an indifference condition for a
marginal agent – a player who observes a signal xi = Y ∗ . Specifically, Y ∗ solves
h

i
EY ∗ D (Y ) P̃ (Y, Y ∗ ) + U (Y ) 1 − P̃ (Y, Y ∗ ) = 0.

(5)

That is, for a marginal agent, the expected payoff from attacking over not attacking is equal
to zero.

Payoff sensitivity effect. As shown by Iachan and Nenov (2015), with a continuum of
players, the effect of information quality on the equilibrium of this game depends on a
comparison of the sensitivities of payoffs in the case of regime change and status quo survival.
In our experiment, we focus on the case where U (Y ) = U < 0 and D (Y ) is strictly increasing
in Y . The prediction of the model that we aim to test experimentally is the comparative
static of Y ∗ with respect to . In the context of a continuum of players, increased information
dispersion is destabilizing (Iachan and Nenov, 2015). Put differently, if U (Y ) = U < 0, ∀Y ,
∗

and D(Y ) is strictly increasing, then ∂Y
< 0, so agents are more aggressive when attacking.
∂
This comparative static continues to hold in our specific experimental set-up with a finite
number of players as Figure 4 in Section 5.1 illustrates. Below we refer to this effect of
information dispersion on the strategic cutoff Y ∗ , the payoff sensitivity effect. The intuition
for this effect is the following.
Under imperfect information, the expected net payoff associated with regime change
provides incentives to attack, while the expected net payoff in the case of status quo survival
provides opposing incentives. Less precise information makes extreme realizations of the
fundamentals more likely, changing expected net payoffs. Whenever the net payoff from

10

attacking increases more strongly with fundamentals than the net payoff in case of regime
survival, the first force dominates and less precise information make agents more likely to
attack.

3

Experimental implementation

In order to test the payoff sensitivity effect in the lab, we follow closely Heinemann, Nagel,
and Ockenfels (2004).14 The experiment consists of a series of 8 independent rounds. In each
round each subject makes 10 independent binary choices. We organize subjects in groups of
N = 10, with subjects indexed by i. Subjects stay in the same group for all eight rounds.
The rules of the game are made public knowledge through the reading of instructions aloud.15
Unique subjects are used in all sessions. The language of the experiment is neutral.
At the beginning of each round, 10 different values of Y are drawn, where Y is distributed
uniformly on [0, 100]. For any realization of Y , individual signals xi are then drawn independently according to a uniform distribution on [Y − , Y + ]. Each individual signal is
revealed to subject i but not to the other subjects in the group. Within a treatment and a
given round, the list of fundamentals (Y ) are identical for the subjects in different groups,
while the list of signals (xi ) varies over subjects. Given their signals, subjects are asked to
make a decision (A or B) for each of the 10 decision situations in that round. In the context
of the model outlined above, A corresponds to si = 0 and B corresponds to si = 1. Subjects
get a feedback after each round. For each of the 10 games on the list, this feedback consists
of the number Y , the number of subjects that decided for A and B, and the subject’s own
payoff. Subjects earn profits for each decision taken in the experiment.16
14

We adopt the same payoff functions and other parameters as in their (T=20; Z=60) treatments. Our
experiment is based on the same zTree files and the same instructions as their experiment. The only differences, aside from the subject pool, is that we follow Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2009) in considering
groups of 10 rather than 15 subjects, and that we replace the complete information treatment of Heinemann,
Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) with our High Noise treatment.
15
Instructions for the High noise treatment are available at: http://www.leifhelland.net/working-papers/
and also in the Online Appendix.
16
An alternative would be to draw one decision in the experiment randomly and pay subjects for the

11

If a subject chooses A, she receives an endowment of 20 experimental currency units. If the
subject chooses B, she receives a payoff which depends on both the number of other subjects
who chose B and the state Y. Regime change takes place if G10 (Y ) = [10 (80 − Y ) /60]
individuals choose B. More specifically, our payoff structure is as follows. Let Z be the
number of agents in a group that attack. π(Y, Z) is the net payoff from choosing B, given
the fundamental Y and the actions of the group members. π(Y, Z) is increasing in Y .

π(Y, Z) =




Y − 20 : Z ≥ G10 (Y )


−20

(6)

: Z < G10 (Y )

With this set-up, observe that playing A is dominant if Y < 20 and playing B is dominant
if Y > 74.
We run a simple design in which the only treatment is the dispersion in the private signals,
parameterized by the noise term . Specifically, we consider two treatments – a Low noise
treatment with L > 0, and a High noise treatment with H > L . Let Yj∗ denote the
theory-implied strategic cutoff for treatment j = {L, H}. The theoretical predictions are
summarized in Table 1.

We collected data on 8 groups in the High Noise treatment and 8 groups in the Low Noise
treatment, a total of 160 subjects. The sessions were run in the BI Norwegian Business School
Research Lab. The experiment was programmed in z-Tree (Fischbacher, 2007) and subjects
were recruited from the general student populations of BI Norwegian Business School and
the University of Oslo using the software ORSEE (Greiner, 2015).
outcome of the corresponding game. This incentivizes all decisons while neutralizing wealth effects created
by the accumulation of profits. A drawback stems from more complicated instructions adding to the risk
of confusing subjects. Both methods have been employed in the experimental literature on global games.
Results in Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) (that run two high-stake treatments) indicate that the
random payment scheme induces more risk-averse behavior. We shed further light on this in our analysis of
the evolution in risk-attitudes below.

12

Treatments

Low Noise
( = 10 )

High Noise
( = 20 )

Strategic cutoff

YL∗ = 41.4

YH∗ = 37.8

Expected treatment difference

YL∗ − YH∗

=

3.6

Table 1: Equilibrium predictions.

4

Experimental results

Our first objective is to test to what extent subjects follow the equilibrium requirement of
using undominated cutoff strategies in our experiment. For each player i and each round
B
t, let xA
it be the highest signal at which subject i chooses A and xit be the lowest signal at

which she chooses B. We say that a subject’s behavior is consistent with a cutoff strategy
A
in round t, if xB
it ≥ xit . Letting  be the noise in each treatment ( ∈ {10, 20}), observe

that playing B is dominated by A whenever xit < 20 −  and A is dominated by B whenever
xit > 74 + . We say that a subject’s behavior is consistent with an undominated cutoff
A
strategy if it is consistent with a cutoff strategy and xB
it ≥ 20 −  and xit ≤ 74 + .

Overall, the observed behavior of the subjects is largely consistent with playing undominated cutoff strategies. On average, 89% of the subjects play in a way consistent with
undominated cutoff strategies in the Low Noise treatment. In the High Noise treatment,
the corresponding number is 92%. There is also some evidence of an increasing reliance on
undominated cutoff strategies over time. Figure 1 shows the evolution in the use of cutoff
strategies over time for each of our treatments. The percentage of subjects whose behavior
is consistent with undominated cutoff strategies increases as play progresses.

13

% subject behavior consistent with und. thresh. strat.

% subject behavior consistent with und. thresh. strat.

1

.9

.8

.7

.6

.5
0

2

4

6

8

1

.9

.8

.7

.6

.5
0

Round

2

4

6

8

Round

Low Noise

High Noise

Figure 1: Percentage of subjects, whose behavior is consistent with undominated cutoff
strategies.

Result 1 (Cutoff strategies): Subjects play consistently with undominated cutoff strategies.
Therefore, in the remaining analysis of this section, we follow Heinemann, Nagel, and
Ockenfels (2009) and focus on subjects who play according to a cutoff strategy. To estimate
individual strategic cutoffs for each round, we take the individual-level average of the highest
signal for which a subject chooses A and the lowest signal for which the subject chooses B.
We then take the mean of these individual cutoffs within each group and refer to that mean
as the group cutoff.
In what follows we focus on first-round behavior. The level-k model we study in Section
5 below is meant to address initial play in unfamiliar environments, before learning kicks
in (Crawford, 1995).17 Experimental evaluations using models of limited depths of reasoning, therefore, typically focus on first round behavior (e.g., Crawford, 1995, Camerer, 2011,
chapters 1 and 6). Moreover, result 4 below suggests that there is some learning taking place
over time. Since we do not study learning dynamics in this paper, we focus on first-round
behavior in our main analysis.18
17

See also the discussion in Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2009), p.191, regarding path dependence
from initial play in repeated coordination games.
18
Note, however, that results are qualitatively and quantitatively similar when using all data and preforming a logit estimation of individuals likelihood of attacking conditional on their signals, the treatment and
an interaction-term. Also, in Section 5.2.2 we explore the evolution of risk-attitudes and the distribution of
behavioral types using the full data set.

14

1

Cumulative Probability

.8

.6

.4

.2
Low noise
High noise

0
0

20

40

60

80

100

Individual cutoffs

Figure 2: Empirical CDFs of individual cutoffs, by treatment.
Figure 2 shows the empirical CDFs of the individual cutoffs according to treatment.
Interestingly, the CDF of individual cutoffs in the High Noise treatment is a rightward shift
of the CDF of individual cutoffs in the Low Noise treatment. Table 2 reports the group
cutoffs for each group. Data in the table are ranked in ascending order for each treatment
based on the value of the group cutoff. We also include the lowest and highest signal used
to compute the cutoffs, as well as the equilibrium strategic cutoffs for each treatment. As
is evident, in each ordered pair of groups, the group cutoff is higher in the High Noise
treatment.
According to the payoff sensitivity effect (cf. Section 2), subjects should play more
aggressively in the High Noise treatment compared to subjects in the Low Noise treatment.
Both Figure 2 and Table 2 indicate that this is not the case. Figure 2 shows that the CDF of
individual cutoffs in the High Noise treatment is a rightward shift of the CDF of individual
cutoffs in the Low Noise treatment. Therefore, individuals are more cautious when their
information is less precise. Using a two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, we can reject the
hypothesis that the two empirical CDFs are identical in favor of an alternative hypothesis
of smaller cutoffs in the Low Noise treatment with a p-value of 2.5%. However, this test
15

16

Low noise
Lowest ind. cutoff
3.7
1.7
27.6
4.5
7.4
7.14
32.5
25.1
Highest ind. cutoff
35.5
48.7
46.3
93.25
73.3
57.7
56.5
66.5

Group cutoff
31.8
35.8
39.4
41.3
44.6
48.7
49.5
51.5
42.9
6.9
37.8

Table 2: Group cutoffs; first round data only, ranked groups.

Group cutoff
1
22.8
2
30.2
3
35.9
4
38.0
5
39.9
6
40.8
7
44.4
8
44.8
Average
37.1
Standard deviation
7.4
Equilibrium cutoff
41.4

Group #

High noise
Lowest ind. cutoff
7.3
17.6
28.2
13.3
34.3
20.1
33.7
29.5

Highest ind. cutoff
43.9
47.8
71.8
59.6
59.9
90.9
69.0
85.86

Treatment
Low noise
High noise

Average cutoff
37.1
42.9

Std. dev.
7.4
6.9

Difference
-5.7

p-value
0.067

Table 3: One-sided t-test of average cutoff difference across treatments
does not take into account common within-group disturbances. Therefore, we proceed with
a more conservative approach based on the group cutoffs from Table 2.
Table 2 shows that the average (group) cutoff in the High Noise treatment is 5.7 units
higher than in the Low Noise treatment, which has the opposite sign compared to the
difference in equilibrium cutoffs. To formally test whether the difference across treatments
is significant, we use a one-sided t-test.19 The results are reported in Table 3. We reject
the null hypothesis with a p-value of 6.7%, when considering an alternative hypothesis of
a lower threshold in the Low Noise treatment. We conclude that contrary to equilibrium
theory, subjects play less aggressively in the High Noise treatment compared to the Low
Noise treatment.
Result 2 (Information quality comparative statics): The estimated average strategic cutoff
is lower in the Low Noise treatment compared to the High Noise treatment.

5

A model with limited depth of reasoning

The results in the previous section show that higher information dispersion makes subjects
behave less aggressively. This is the exact opposite of the payoff sensitivity effect that one
should expect according to equilibrium play (cf. Section 2). In this section, we develop
and test a model that is consistent with this experimental finding. Our model assumes that
players deviate from equilibrium play and instead have limited depth of reasoning in the
19

In the Appendix, we follow a more conservative approach and run a Mann-Whitney U test. The difference
across thresholds is significant with a p-value of 8.5 %.

17

form of level-k thinking.

5.1

Level-k thinking

Level-k thinking is a frequently used solution concept in Behavioral Game Theory.20 It
features limited depths of reasoning, adds a specific structure to agents’ beliefs, and is
particularly meant to capture players’ initial behavior in strategic games, before learning
induces higher levels of sophistication. The main appeal of level-k thinking in our setting is
that it can change the comparative statics from the equilibrium theory on how information
dispersion affects players’ actions and regime stability. In this section, we illustrate and
discuss the theoretical mechanism through which this happens.

5.1.1

Set-up

We consider again the set-up from Section 2 with net payoffs U (Y ) and D (Y ) given as
in our experimental implementation, so that U (Y ) = U < 0, ∀Y , and D(Y ) is linear and
increasing in Y . Assume that agents have limited depth of reasoning. Specifically, each
player i ∈ {1, 2, ..., N } is assumed to have a type Lk drawn from a discrete distribution over
k ∈ {1, . . . , ∞}, where Lk denotes a type that engages in k rounds of reasoning. An Lk type
best-responds to the belief that all other agents play as L (k − 1) types, for k > 1. Finally,
L1 types best respond as if all other agents act as L0 types, where the behavior of L0 types
is specified as a model primitive. Note that there are no actual L0 types among the players.
Following Kneeland (2016), we assume that L1 types believe that the aggregate behavior
of L0 types is described by the cumulative distribution function Q (z|Y ), where z denotes
the fraction of agents that attack. Here, Q (z|Y ) is continuously differentiable and weakly
decreasing in Y , so that L1 types believe that a higher value of Y leads to a larger share of
L0 types attacking.
20

See, for instance, Nagel (1995); Stahl and Wilson (1995); Kubler and Weizsacker (2004); Crawford,
Costa-Gomes, and Iriberri (2013).

18

5.1.2

Characterization

Let Yk∗ denote the signal value of an Lk type, for which that type is indifferent between
attacking and not attacking. In other words, Yk∗ is the strategic cutoff for an Lk type. An
Lk type that attacks expects that regime change occurs with probability P̃k (Y ). Given the
level-k assumptions, it follows that

P̃k (Y ) =






1 − Q GN (Y )−1 |Y , k = 1
N



∗
P̃ Y, Yk−1
,

,

(7)

k>1

where P̃ (Y, x) = F N −1 (GN −1 (Y ), Y, x). Therefore, Yk∗ solves
h
i
EYk∗ (D (Y ) − U ) P̃k (Y ) + U = 0

(8)

One can also characterize Yk∗ as follows. Define implicitly the function h (x) by
h
i
Eh(x) (D (Y ) − U ) P̃ (Y, x) + U = 0.
Therefore, h (x) is the strategic cutoff given that all other players use cutoff strategies with
cutoff x. Because the strategic cutoff fully characterizes the strategies of Lk types, it follows
that one can think of h (x) as the best response function of an agent who anticipates that
all other players use cutoff x. To find the strategic cutoffs for all Lk types, let Y1∗ solve (8)

∗
and let Yk∗ = h Yk−1
for k > 1.
Remark 1. Recall from Section 2 that Y ∗ denotes the strategic cutoff according to
equilibrium play. Then Y ∗ is the fixed point of h (.) and satisfies Y ∗ = h (Y ∗ ). Moreover,
continuity of h (x) implies that Yk∗ → Y ∗ .
Remark 2. It is straightforward to show that h (x) is strictly increasing in x. Therefore,
there is a strategic complementarity across Lk types. Specifically, the aggressiveness of the
level-(k − 1) types (i.e. the location of their cutoff) influences the level-k type’s cutoff (and,
19

∗
through that cutoff, affects level-(k + 1) agents, and so forth). The lower the value of Yk−1
∗
, etc.
(the more aggressive the L (k − 1) type), the lower the value of Yk∗ , Yk+1

5.1.3

Effects of changes in information quality

Next, we discuss how changes in  affect the behavior of Lk types (i.e. the effects of  on
Yk∗ ). To this end we first show a specific example which illustrates the novel channel through
which information quality affects the behavior of Lk types. For analytical convenience, we
take N → ∞, so that P̃ (Y, x) converges to a step function with a discontinuity at Y f (x),
in which Y f (x) satisfies
 1 Y f (x) − x
g Y (x) = +
.
2
2
f

(9)

We also follow our experimental implementation and the structural estimation below, and
assume that g (Y ) is linear and the distribution of play of L0 types is independent of Y
and has an increasing density. Finally, we assume that D (Y ) = D > 0 is a constant. This
particular assumption is made to switch off the payoff sensitivity effect from changes in
information dispersion  (cf. Section 2 and Corollary 1 in Iachan and Nenov (2015)). As
a result, the equilibrium strategic cutoff, Y ∗ , does not vary with information dispersion .
In contrast to the noise invariance of equilibrium play, we have the following result for the
strategic cutoff of Lk types.
Proposition 1. (Strategic attenuation) Consider the game described above and let D (Y ) =
D > 0. Suppose that L0 types play more aggressively than uniform randomization, so
Y1∗ < Y ∗ . Then,

∂Yk∗
> 0: Higher noise makes Lk types less aggressive.
∂

Proof. See the Online Appendix.
Figure 3 illustrates this result. A higher value of  flattens the best response function
h (x) (dashed line) and rotates it clockwise around the fixed point Y ∗ , which is noise invariant. To the left of Y ∗ , h (x) increases. Intuitively, an increase in the dispersion of private
noise attenuates the strategic complementarity across Lk types, because it makes agents less
20

coordinated when attacking and also reduces their ability to forecast the actions of other
agents. This shows up as a flattening of the best response function that links an Lk type’s
strategic cutoff with the strategic cutoff she believes L (k − 1) types follow. Therefore, whenever L (k − 1) types are more aggressive than Lk types, higher information dispersion makes
Lk types react less to the aggressiveness of L (k − 1) types; Lk types become less aggressive
with higher information dispersion. We call this effect of information dispersion strategic
attenuation.21
The strategic attenuation effect suggests that the effects of information quality can be
reversed for some Lk types relative to the equilibrium model. Figure 3 suggests that the
effect is stronger for more aggressive L1 types (a low initial value of Y1∗ ) and for low values
of k > 1, that is for Lk types who engage in few rounds of reasoning. In terms of model
primitives, L1 types tend to be more aggressive when they expect L0 types to play more
aggressively. Therefore, in our structural estimation below we will assume that L0 types
play relatively aggressively, so that the strategic attenuation effect operates.
Remark 1. The flattening of the best response function h when  is increased is closely
related to the mechanism through which strategic complementarities in combination with
small amounts of private information lead to a unique equilibrium in global games of regime
change. Indeed, if  = 0, then in the example above, h (x) has a slope of one, leading to
multiple equilibria.
Remark 2. The strategic attenuation effect operates at each level of reasoning, for k > 1.
Therefore, even in a case in which the behavior of L1 players is noise invariant, the strategic
attenuation effect kicks in for all higher levels of k.
Next, we show that the strategic attenuation effect also operates in the context of our
experimental set-up with a finite number of players and where payoffs are such that the
payoff sensitivity effect also operates (including for Lk players). Figure 4 plots the strategic
21

Figure 3 also illustrates that strategic attenuation would also operate if L1 types are less aggressive than
the equilibrium agents. In that case, provided that Y1∗ does not vary much with , a higher value of  would
imply that Lk types become more aggressive.

21

Figure 3: Strategic attenuation from higher noise .

cutoffs of different level-k types for the two different values of  used in the experiment. The
left-hand panel is for risk neutral agents, while the right-hand panel is for risk averse agents
with constant relative-risk aversion (CRRA) type preferences and coefficient of relative risk
aversion equal to the estimated coefficient in our structural estimation below.22 The figure
also includes the average cutoffs for each experimental treatment. The figure shows how Yk∗
converges to a stable value as k increases, which is also the strategic cutoff in the equilibrium
model, Y ∗ (denoted by ∞ on the x-axis of each panel).
There are several observations we can make from this figure. First, in the context of
our experimental set-up, changes in information quality impact the strategic cutoff of some
level-k types differently from the equilibrium model. Indeed, while equilibrium types (which
we define as agents that use a cutoff equal to the cutoff in the equilibrium model) end up
playing more aggressively with high noise, L2 and L3 types play less aggressively irrespective
of whether they are risk neutral or risk averse. This difference in behavior is due to the
22

The assumption of L0 play is as in our baseline structural estimation below, i.e. the fraction of attacking
L0-types is distributed according to a Beta(α, β) distribution with shape-parameters α = 10 and β = 1. In
the Appendix, we characterize the strategic cutoffs for level-k types with CRRA preferences.

22

strategic attenuation effect dominating the payoff sensitivity effect in the case of L2 and L3
types.
Second, risk aversion has a two-fold effect on behavior. First, it raises the strategic cutoffs
for all level-k (and the equilibrium) types. As a result, while with risk neutral agents the
estimated average cutoffs for each treatment are closer to those of the equilibrium types, with
risk averse agents, the estimated average cutoffs are more in line with the strategic cutoffs of
lower level-k types, such as L1 and L2 types. In addition, risk aversion significantly weakens
the “payoff sensitivity” effect as evident from the effect of higher information dispersion on
the strategic cutoff of equilibrium types.
Therefore, although risk aversion on its own does not reverse the comparative statics
with respect to information precision, and the comparative statics are reversed for low levelk types even with risk neutral agents, risk aversion is important for the magnitude of the
reversal. In addition, it ensures that the levels of the strategic cutoffs of the Lk types are in
line with our empirical data. For these reasons, in our structural estimation below we allow
agents to have CRRA preferences and estimate the coefficient of relative risk aversion for
these agents jointly with the other parameters of our structural model.23

5.2

Empirical evaluation

In this section, we evaluate empirically whether the level-k model can account for the deviations from equilibrium theory that we have documented in Section 4. We first structurally
23

Notice that for L1 types the strategic cutoff changes little with information dispersion in both the risk
neutral and risk averse cases. Moreover, the comparative statics for L1 types can go either way. The reason
is that the payoff sensitivity effect impacts the behavior of L1 types, as it does higher level-k types, and
pushes for L1 types to be more aggressive when  increases. On the other hand, the strategic attenuation
effect does not operate for L1 types, and instead changes in  interact with the distribution of play of L0
types. If the distribution of play of L0 types has an increasing density, then a higher value of  pushes
towards L1 types being less aggressive. However, this effect tends to be weak, so that when agents are
risk neutral, the payoff sensitivity effect dominates for L1 types, while with risk averse agents, the payoff
sensitivity effect is also weak, so the two effects almost balance out.

23

Risk neutral

Risk averse

k-level

k-level

Notes: In the left panel, agents are risk-neutral. In the right panel, agents are risk-averse with a CRRAcoefficient equal to the estimate from the baseline model in Table 4.

Figure 4: Strategic cutoffs of level-k and equilibrium types and estimated average cutoffs for
low and high level of .
estimate a finite mixture model of play on our experimental data and then use the estimated
model to explain the deviations from equilibrium theory that we observe.

5.2.1

Methodology

To separate the subjects into different level-k types, we follow Kneeland (2016) and estimate
a finite mixture model on our experimental data.24 For our baseline estimation, we allow
subjects to be L1, L2, and equilibrium types, which we denote by Lk, k ∈ {1, 2, ∞}.25
We denote the share of Lk types by pk , withp∞ denoting the share of equilibrium types.
Following the discussion from the previous section, we assume that players have CRRA
24

We follow the estimation procedure for finite mixture models in Mofatt (2016), chapter 8.
We follow a structural approach and estimate parameters of a pre-specified model, including the proportion of players that follow each particular Lk-type behavior. As described soon, players are assumed to
make errors in their play. The frequency of those errors, combined with their variance, can be understood
as a measure of mismatch between the behavior assumed for a particular type and what is observed.
As in Kneeland (2016), equilibrium types engage in infinite rounds of reasoning, so they play according
to the equilibrium strategies from the global games model.
25

24

10
Beta(10,1)
Uniform(0,1)

8

PDF

6

4

2

0

0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

Fraction of L0's attacking

Figure 5: Beta(10,1) vs. uniform distribution.
preferences over the (gross) payoffs from each decision with a coefficient of relative risk
aversion of α, and estimate α jointly with the other model parameters. We further assume
that each subject follows the action of a particular Lk type with some error. Specifically,
in each decision round a subject makes a decision consistent with her type with probability
1−ν and makes an error with probability ν. If the player makes an error, the choice depends

on an error density dk aiq , λ specified in equation (11) below.
As illustrated in Proposition 1, the effect of information quality can be reversed for some
level-k types compared to the equilibrium model. This happens if L0 types are expected to
play sufficiently aggressively, so that level-k types play more aggressively than the equilibrium
types. Therefore, we assume that L0 types are expected to play aggressively. Specifically,
in our baseline estimation we assume that the fraction of attacking L0-types is distributed
according to a Beta(10, 1) distribution, which has a mean of 0.909.
In Figure 5, we illustrate how this distribution of L0-types’ play differs from the case
where L0-types randomize uniformly over actions. While most of the literature in which
level-k models are used to explain data from experimental games makes the latter assumption, (Crawford, Costa-Gomes, and Iriberri, 2013, and references therein), the literature on
25

experimental coordination games has shown that initial play tends to be biased towards
payoff dominant actions (Costa-Gomes, Crawford, and Iriberri, 2009).26,27 Moreover, assuming that L0 types randomize uniformly in global games of regime change (so that the
share of agents attacking is uniformly distributed) leads to the equilibrium outcome, since
L1 types end up holding (and reacting to) Laplacian beliefs about the remaining players’
actions (Morris and Shin, 2003). For these reasons Kneeland (2016) assumes that L0 types
play more aggressively than uniform randomization in her empirical investigation of a level-k
model in an experimental global game.28
Our assumption of aggressive L0 types is, therefore, in line with this previous work on
level-k models in experimental global games. To investigate the robustness of our results to
the assumed behavior of L0 types, below we also investigate the performance of the model
under several alternative assumptions.
Let Q = {1, 2, ..., 10} denote the set of all decisions, q ∈ Q denote a specific decision
instance, and aiq denote the choice of subject i in instance q. For each subject×type, we
define the set Qik ⊂ Q, which consists of all instances q, where subject i made a choice
26

A deviation from the assumption of uniform randomization over actions for L0 types is also found in
the literature on auctions, where such types are assumed to bid their value conditional on their own signal
(Crawford and Iriberri, 2007).
27
Initial bias towards the payoff dominant action is also observed in the weakest-link game analyzed
by Van Huyck, Battalio, and Beil (1990). Their version of the game has seven Pareto ranked equilibria
characterized by all players choosing the same (out of seven available) effort levels. While a large fraction of
subjects initially try to coordinate on the payoff dominant equilibrium by choosing the highest effort level,
behavior quickly converges to coordination on the least efficient equilibrium where all players choose their
minimum effort level (which ensures their maximin payoff). The hurdle function in Van Huyck, Battalio, and
Beil (1990) is demanding in that it requires that all players coordinate on the same effort level for coordination
to succeed. In parallel, to this, experiments on global games find that the frequency of subjects choosing
the risky action goes down with a more demanding hurdle (see for instance the results in Heinemann,
Nagel, and Ockenfels (2009)). Goeree and Holt (2005) note that efficiency in weakest-link experiments
improves significantly when the cost of coordination failure is reduced (while preserving the Nash equilibrium
structure), and that the logit QRE equilibrium explains this phenomenon well.
28
A theoretical literature using non-equilibrium concepts to understand coordination in a global games
setting is emerging. Heinemann, Noussair, and Cornand (2015) shows that the over-reaction to public
signals observed in the experimental literature is welfare improving if agents have limited levels of reasoning.
Shapiro, Shi, and Zillante (2014) investigate the predictive power of the global games set-up when agents
have limited depths of reasoning. Their model focuses on the strength of the coordination motive and wether
information is symmetric (two public signals) or asymmetric (one public and one private signal). Their klevel model predicts that coordination is increasing in the strength of the coordination motive and with
symmetric information. Their experiment lends support to these predictions.

26

aiq consistent with type Lk. Weighting over the different types (k) and summing over all
subjects (i), we get that the log-likelihood of observing a particular set of choices is

L=

N
X


log 

i=1

X

pk Πq∈Qik

k∈{1,2,∞}




Πq /∈Qik νdk aiq , λ  .
1 − ν + νdk aiq , λ

(10)

The parameter λ is a precision parameter in the error density

d

k

aiq , λ





exp λSqk aiq


=
,
exp λSqk (attack) + exp λSqk (not attack)

(11)


where Sqk aiq denotes the expected payoff of an agent of type Lk at decision instance q, who
makes a choice aiq .
The unit of analysis is now individual decisions, which is in line with the existing literature on coordination experiments (Costa-Gomes, Crawford, and Iriberri, 2009; Crawford,
Gneezy, and Rottenstreich, 2008). In our benchmark estimation, we estimate 5 independent
parameters, namely p1 , p2 (the fractions of types L1 and L2), λ, ν, and α on data from the
first round for both treatments.

5.2.2

Results

We report the estimation results in Table 4. In Column (1) we report the results from
estimating our baseline model. The fraction of level-k types is estimated to be 72%. This
is roughly in line with the estimate from Kneeland (2016). Most agents are classified as
L2 types. In terms of trembling probabilities, we estimate a relatively large trembling rate

ν. Note however, that the actual trembling probabilities, which are given by νdk aiq , λ
are substantially lower than ν, as illustrated in Figure 9, which plots the distributions of

νdk aiq , λ by subjects and decision rounds for the three different Lk-types in the model given
the round one data. As the Figure illustrates the trembling probabilities tend to be low,
suggesting that for the most part observed play is consistent with the theoretical predictions
of the level-k model. The estimated CRRA parameter of 0.48 is broadly in line with other
27

studies estimating risk attitudes based on data from experimental games, individual decision
making experiments, as well as field studies.29
In Column (2), we report the results from estimating a model where agents are instead
assumed to be risk neutral. With risk neutral agents the estimation procedure ends up
classifying the majority of players (around 62%) as equilibrium types, This should not be
surprising in light of Figure 4 above, which shows that with risk neutral agents the estimated
average cutoffs in the experimental data are closer to the theoretical cutoffs of equilibrium
types than of L1 or L2 types.
In Column (3), we report the results from estimating a model without level-k types but
only with risk averse equilibrium types. Importantly, the log-likelihoods of both models (2)
and (3) are substantially lower than the log-likelihood in our baseline model (1), indicating
that the data is substantially more likely to be generated by a level-k model with risk averse
agents. Specifically, we can test for risk neutrality versus risk aversion using a likelihood

LM odel (2)
ratio test. Under the null hypothesis of risk neutrality, the distribution of −2 ln LM
odel (1)
is χ2 with one degree of freedom. The value of the test statistic is 107.4, which implies a
p-value of less than 0.001. Therefore, risk neutrality is strongly rejected in the data. We
can use a similar approach to test for only equilibrium types by comparing the log-likelihood
of model (3) against our benchmark model. Under the null hypothesis of only equilibrium


L odel (3)
is χ2 with two degrees of freedom. The value of
types, the distribution of −2 ln LM
M odel (1)
the test statistic is 136, which also implies a p-value of less than 0.001. Therefore, having
only equilibrium types is also strongly rejected in the data.
Next, we investigate the robustness of our assumption of relatively aggressive play by L0
29
In auction experiments, the estimated risk-aversion parameter α̂ lies in the interval 0.48-0.67 (Cox and
Oaxaca (1996); Chen and Plott (1998); Goeree, Holt, and Palfrey (2002)). In comparison, Campo (2012)
and Lu and Perrigne (2008) estimate α̂ to be 0.55 for field data on timber auctions. In experiments on
2X2 asymmetric matching pennies games (Goeree, Holt, and Palfrey (2003)) α̂ lies in the intervall 0.42-0.44.
In a dynamic legislative bargaining experiment Battaglini and Palfrey (2012) find α̂ to be 0.50. Heggedal,
Helland, and Morton (2020) estimate an α̂ = 0.35 when investigating a probabalistic voting model. Albeit
not a coordination game, exogenous uncertainty are central features of a probabilitic voting game as well as
a global game. In comparison, for the lottery choice experiments (i.e., individual decision making) of Holt
and Laury (2002, 2005)) α̂ is found to be in the range 0.30-0.60.

28

types. In column (4), we assume that the fraction of L0 types attacking is governed by a
Beta(x,1) distribution and estimate x directly. Importantly, this model nests uniform randomization over actions by L0 types, as a uniform distribution and a Beta(1, 1) distribution
coincide. The resulting x is 34.2, which translates into a mean attack rate of approximately
97%. Importantly, when we estimate the implied behavior of L0 types, the log-likelihood
improves further compared to the baseline. Therefore, the data favors even more aggressive
perceived play by L0 types compared to our baseline assumption.
We can also compare the log-likelihoods from models (3) and (4) to explicitly test if
uniform randomization by L0 types is rejected in the data. The reason for this is that model
(4) nests model (3), since as already discussed above, a fully rational model and a model
with level-k types in which the L0 types are perceived to randomize uniformly over actions
lead to identical cutoffs for all level-k types that equal the strategic cutoff of equilibrium
types. Under the null hypothesis of uniform randomization by L0 types, the distribution


L odel (3)
is χ2 with one degree of freedom. The value of the test statistic is 186
of −2 ln LM
M odel (4)
(p-value < 0.001), so uniform play by L0 types is strongly rejected in our data.30
To additionally assess the robustness of our estimates to the assumed behavior of L0
types, in Columns (5) and (6) we return to the case where L0 behavior is fixed, and report
the results under two alternative assumptions about L0 behavior. In column (5) we estimate
a model where the proportion of L0 types attacking approaches 1, while in column (6) we
estimate model where L0 types do not attack in the lower dominance region. In both cases,
all parameters and the log-likelihoods are similar to the baseline. Finally, in column (7) we
report the results from estimating a level-k model when also including L3 types. In this
case, the estimated risk aversion declines somewhat and the fraction of L1 and L2 types
decline. The log-likelihood is similar to the different models with two level-k types, and a
likelihood ratio test cannot reject that the data is generated by our baseline model with only
30
Note that a likelihood ratio test of our baseline model against model (4) also rejects our assumption of
a Beta(10,1) distribution of play for L0 types in favor of the more aggressive play estimated in model (4)
at conventional levels of significance. Therefore, in our baseline model we assume that the L0 types are too
cautious relative to what the data appears to favor.

29

two level-k types.
We proceed by investigating whether the estimated baseline level-k model can rationalize
the experimental effect of information quality (Result 2 from Section 4). A simple first pass is
to compute the weighted-average of the theory-implied strategic cutoffs given the estimated
risk-aversion coefficient and using the estimated distribution of Lk types from Table 4 as
weights. We can then investigate whether the resulting average cutoff in the Low Noise
treatment is lower than the average cutoff in the High Noise treatment. This exercise yields
an average strategic cutoff of 38.73 in the Low Noise treatment, and 41.26 in the High Noise
treatment. Put differently, agents are, on average, less aggressive in the High Noise treatment
compared to the Low Noise treatment, which is in line with our experimental findings. To
further shed light on how the estimated level-k model performs relative to the data, we test
whether the level-k implied cutoffs differ significantly from our estimated average cutoffs.
The results are shown in Table 5. In both cases, we cannot reject that the average strategic
cutoffs implied by the level-k model differs significantly from the estimated average cutoffs
in the data.
Treatment Estimated average cutoff Structural model prediction
Low noise
37.1
38.73
High noise
42.9
41.26

p-value
0.53
0.56

Table 5: Two-sided t-test of the estimated average cutoff versus the average cutoff from the
level-k model.

A caveat with the preceding exercise is that it does not take into account that our
estimated model allows for trembles. We therefore proceed with the following simulation
exercise: We simulate 1000 sessions, whereby in each session 640 games are played. For each
session and game, agents draw a type according to the estimated type distribution from
Table 4. We then assume that agents play according to their drawn type, with a probability
of trembling equal to our estimated ν. Conditional on trembling, agents choose actions
subject to to a spike-logit error, governed by the precision parameter λ, leading to decision
frequencies specified in equation (11). For each game, we then compare the mean cutoffs
30

31
-670.8003
1600

-617.0765
1600

Log-likelihood

-

1600

-685.3984

0.6691
[0.0684]
0.0525
[0.0054]
0.1199
[0.0878]
-

-

1600

0.2241
[0.1295]
0.8269
[0.1899]
0.3694
[0.1383]
0.4248
[0.0907]
34.2829
[16.1759]
-604.8430
1600

-614.6746

1600

-615.1004

1600

-618.1589

(5) Fixed L0: Alt 1. (6) Fixed L0: Alt 2. (7) Three Lk-types
0.0899
0.1113
0.1512
[0.0562]
[0.0531]
[0.0838]
0.5385
0.5631
0.2410
[0.1289]
[0.1218]
[0.0862]
0.4744
[0.0881]
0.3716
0.3256
0.1334
[0.1374]
[0.1313]
[0.1232]
0.6311
0.7240
0.6715
[0.1878]
[0.1843]
[0.1430]
0.2122
0.2500
0.2218
[0.1094]
[0.0825]
[0.0819]
0.4577
0.4804
0.3253
[0.0919]
[0.0813]
[0.0859]
-

Table 4: Parameter estimates and log-likelihoods.

Notes: Bootstrapped standard errors in brackets.. The table reports parameter estimates from estimating equation (10) on data from round 1. In
Column (1) we estimate a model with L1,L2 and equilibrium types under the assumption that the proportion of L0 attacking is drawn from a
Beta(10, 1) distribution and where all agents are risk-averse. In Column (2) we estimate a similar model as in (1), but where agents are risk-neutral.
In Column (3) we estimate a model with only risk-averse equilibrium types. In Column (4) we estimate a similar model as in (1), but where the
proportion of L0 attacking is drawn from a Beta(x, 1) distribution and where x (“Shape-parameter”) is estimated. In Column (5) we estimate a
similar model as in (1), but where the proportion of L0 attacking → 1. In Column (6) we estimate a similar model as in (5), but where L0 types do
not attack in the lower dominance region. Finally, in Column (7) we estimate a model as in (1), but where we allow for a L3 type as well.

Shape-parameter

Coefficient of relative risk aversion (α)

Precision of error density (λ)

Trembling rate (ν )

0.6239
[0.0868]
0.4819
[0.0760]
0.0255
[0.0053]
-

0.2737
[0.1468]
0.6481
[0.1936]
0.2211
[0.0860]
0.4756
[0.0744]
-

Fraction of equilibrium types ( 1 − p1 − p2 − p3 )

Fraction of level-3 agents ( p3 )

Fraction of level-2 agents ( p2 )

(2) Risk-neutral (3) Equilibrium types (4) Endo. L0
0.0558
0.1860
[0.0717]
[0.0633]
0.3203
0.5899
[0.0586]
[0.1068]
-

(1) Baseline
0.1935
[0.0865]
0.5328
[0.1295]
-

Model:
Fraction of level-1 agents ( p1 )

1

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0
-10

-8

-6

-4

-2

0

2

Figure 6: Empirical CDF of estimated cutoff differences from 1000 simulated sessions. Dotted lines indicate 95% confidence intervals as computed by Greenwood’s formula. Red vertical line correspond to the average cutoff difference in the data (-5.8).
across a high and a low noise treatment, denoted by θ̂l and θ̂h , respectively. In the Appendix,
we provide further information on the simulation exercise.
Figure 6 plots the empirical CDF of the differences between average cutoffs across the
two treatments (θ̂l − θ̂h ) using the simulated data. Approximately 98% of the simulated
sessions have negative differences in average cutoffs. In addition, around 15% of sessions
have an average cutoff difference equal to or larger (in magnitude) than the average cutoff
difference we observe in the experimental data as illustrated by the red, vertical line. We
take this as additional evidence that the level-k model can explain our main experimental
finding.
To investigate learning dynamics, in Figure 7, we compare the estimated fraction of levelk agents, for k ∈ {1, 2}, and the estimated CRRA-coefficient from the model estimated on
period 1 and period 8 data, respectively. The estimated fraction of level-k agents is lower
when using period 8 data compared to period 1, suggesting that agents tend to behave

32

0.8

First period
Last period

0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0

Fraction of k-types

CRRA-coefficient

Figure 7: Evolution of model parameters over time. First and last period.
more like equilibrium types in the latter stages of the experiment. This is consistent with
the evolution of the estimated average cutoffs (see Figure 8 in the Appendix). However,
the decline is relatively small, which suggests that learning is slow in this environment.31
Note that the observed decline in the estimated CRRA coefficient is consistent with the
accumulation of profits over the course of the experiment, creating a wealth effect, further
justifying our focus on first period behavior in the main analysis.

6

Concluding remarks

In this paper we experimentally test how changes in private information precision affect
regime stability in a standard global games model. We show that contrary to the equilibrium
predictions of a standard global game, higher information precision is destabilizing. We
show that augmenting the standard global games set-up with boundedly rational agents
that engage in level-k thinking can help explain our experimental finding. In the levelk model, information quality affects agents’ actions through a novel channel, which does
31

However, we caution against drawing strong conclusions about long run behavior from these results.
Convergence may require a considerable number of rounds even in simple games (Friedman, Huck, Oprea, and
Weidenholzer, 2015). Though some evidence of convergence to Nash equilibrium exists for p-beauty contests
(Camerer, 2011:318-322), the global game model is more complex than a p-beauty contest. Complexity is
known to impact on the form and speed of learning in games (Paich and Sterman (1993), Ho and Weigelt
(1996)). In our view, the study of long run behavior in global games is a promising venue for future research.
Traction may require change over time in the (perceived) behavior of L0 types. Using the sentiment theory
presented in Szkup and Trevino (2020) might be an interesting avenue for this.

33

not operate in the fully rational model. Specifically, higher private information dispersion
attenuates the across-type strategic complementarity in the level-k model, which can reverse
the comparative statics with respect to changes in information quality.
The fact that the fully rational and level-k models can differ so dramatically in their
predictions about the effect of information quality on behavior points to the importance
of studying more carefully global coordination games with boundedly rational agents, both
theoretically and experimentally. We view this as a promising venue for future research.

References
Angeletos, G.-M., and C. Lian (2017): “Dampening General Equilibrium: From Micro
to Macro,” Discussion paper, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Avoyan, A. (2017): “Communications in Global Games: Theory and Experiment,” Discussion paper, Working Paper, Indiana University.
Baeriswyl, R., and C. Cornand (2016): “The predominant role of signal precision in
experimental beauty contests,” The BE Journal of Theoretical Economics, 16(1), 267–301.
Battaglini, M., and T. R. Palfrey (2012): “The dynamics of distributive politics,”
Economic Theory, 49(3), 739–777.
Cabrales, A., R. Nagel, and R. Armenter (2007): “Equilibrium selection through
incomplete information: an experimental study,” Experimental Economics, 10, 221–234.
Camerer, C. F. (2011): Behavioral game theory: Experiments in strategic interaction.
Princeton University Press.
Campo, S. (2012): “Risk aversion and asymmetry in procurement auctions: Identification, estimation and application to construction procurements,” Journal of Econometrics,
168(1), 96–107.
34

Carlsson, H., and E. van Damme (1993): “Global Games and Equilibrium Selection,”
Econometrica, 61(5), 989–1018.
Chen, K.-Y., and C. R. Plott (1998): “Nonlinear behavior in sealed bid first price
auctions,” Games and Economic Behavior, 25(1), 34–78.
Cooper, R., D. DeJong, R. Forsythe, and T. Ross (1990): “Selection criteria in
coordination games: some experimental results,” American Economic Review, 80(1), 218–
233.
(1992): “Communication in coordination games,” Quarterly Journal of Economics,
107(2), 739–771.
Cornand, C. (2006): “Speculative attacks and informational structure: a experimental
study,” Review of International Economics, 14, 797–817.
Cornand, C., and F. Heinemann (2014): “Measuring agents’ reactions to private and
public information in games with strategic complementarities,” Experimental Economics,
17(1), 61–77.
Costa-Gomes, M. A., V. P. Crawford, and N. Iriberri (2009): “Comparing models
of strategic thinking in Van Huyck, Battalio, and Beil’s coordination games,” Journal of
the European Economic Association, 7(2-3), 365–376.
Cox, J. C., and R. L. Oaxaca (1996): “Is bidding behavior consistent with bidding
theory for private value auctions?,” Research in experimental economics, 6, 131–148.
Crawford, V., M. Costa-Gomes, and N. Iriberri (2013): “Structural models of
Nonequilibrium Strategic Thinking: Theory, Evidence, and Applications,” Journal of Economic Literature, 51(1), 5–62.
Crawford, V. P. (1995): “Adaptive dynamics in coordination games,” Econometrica:
Journal of the Econometric Society, pp. 103–143.
35

Crawford, V. P., U. Gneezy, and Y. Rottenstreich (2008): “The power of focal
points is limited: even minute payoff asymmetry may yield large coordination failures,”
The American Economic Review, 98(4), 1443–1458.
Crawford, V. P., and N. Iriberri (2007): “Level-k auctions: Can a nonequilibrium
model of strategic thinking explain the winner’s curse and overbidding in private-value
auctions?,” Econometrica, 75(6), 1721–1770.
Dale, D. J., and J. Morgan (2012): “Experiments on the social value of public information,” University of California, Berkeley.
Duffy, J., and J. Ochs (2012): “Equilibrium selection in static and dynamic entry games,”
Games and Economic Behavior, 76(1), 97–116.
Edmond, C. (2013): “Information manipulation, coordination, and regime change,” Review
of Economic Studies, 80(4), 1422–1458.
Fischbacher, U. (2007): “z-Tree: Zurich toolbox for ready-made economic experiments,”
Experimental Economics, 10(2), 171–178.
Friedman, D., S. Huck, R. Oprea, and S. Weidenholzer (2015): “From imitation
to collusion: Long-run learning in a low-information environment,” Journal of Economic
Theory, 155, 185–205.
Goeree, J. K., and C. A. Holt (2005): “An experimental study of costly coordination,”
Games and Economic Behavior, 51(2), 349–364.
Goeree, J. K., C. A. Holt, and T. R. Palfrey (2002): “Quantal response equilibrium
and overbidding in private-value auctions,” Journal of Economic Theory, 104(1), 247–272.
(2003): “Risk averse behavior in generalized matching pennies games,” Games and
Economic Behavior, 45(1), 97–113.

36

Goldstein, I., and A. Pauzner (2005): “Demand-Deposit Contracts and the Probability
of Bank Runs,” the Journal of Finance, 60(3), 1293–1327.
Greiner, B. (2015): “Subject pool recruitement procedures: organizing experiments with
orsee,” Journal of the Economic Science Association, 1(1), 114–125.
Heggedal, T.-R., L. Helland, and K.-E. N. Joslin (2018): “Should I Stay or Should
I Go? Bandwagons in the Lab,” Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 150,
86–97.
Heggedal, T.-R., L. Helland, and R. Morton (2020): “Can Paying Politicians Well
Reduce Corruption? The Effects of Wages and Uncertainty on Electoral Competition,”
Working paper, CESAR, BI Norwegian Business School.
Heinemann, F. (2018): “An experimental test og the global-game selection in games with
asymmetric players,” Discussion paper.
Heinemann, F., and G. Illing (2002): “Speculative attacks: unique equilibrium and
transparency,” Journal of International Economics, 58(2), 429–450.
Heinemann, F., and H. Moradi (2018): “Sunspots in global games: Theory and experiment,” Discussion paper.
Heinemann, F., R. Nagel, and P. Ockenfels (2004): “The theory of global games on
test: Experimental analysis of coordination games with public and private information,”
Econometrica, 72(5), 1583–1599.
Heinemann, F., R. Nagel, and P. Ockenfels (2009): “Measuring Strategic Uncertainty
in Coordination Games,” Review of Economic Studies, 76, 181–221.
Heinemann, F., C. Noussair, and C. Cornand (2015): “Limited higher order beliefs
and the welfare effects of public information,” Journal of Economic Studies.

37

Ho, T.-H., and K. Weigelt (1996): “Task complexity, equilibrium selection, and learning:
An experimental study,” Management Science, 42(5), 659–679.
Holt, C. A., and S. K. Laury (2002): “Risk aversion and incentive effects,” American
economic review, 92(5), 1644–1655.
(2005): “Risk aversion and incentive effects: New data without order effects,”
American Economic Review, 95(3), 902–912.
Iachan, F., and P. Nenov (2015): “Information quality and crises in regime-change
games,” Journal of Economic Theory, 158B, 739–768.
Kneeland, T. (2016): “Coordination under limited depth of reasoning,” Games and Economic Behavior, 96, 49–64.
Kubler, D., and G. Weizsacker (2004): “Limited depth of reasoning and failure of
cascade formation in the laboratory,” Review of Economic Studies, 71(2), 425–441.
Lu, J., and I. Perrigne (2008): “Estimating risk aversion from ascending and sealedbid auctions: The case of timber auction data,” Journal of Applied Econometrics, 23(7),
871–896.
Mofatt, P. G. (2016): Experimetrics. Econometrics for Experimental Economics. Palgrave
McMillan.
Morris, S., and H. Shin (2003): “Global Games: Theory and Applications,” in Advances
in Economics and Econometrics, the Eighth World Congress, ed. by H. Dewatripont, and
Turnovsky.
Morris, S., and H. S. Shin (1998): “Unique Equilibrium in a Model of Self-Fulfilling
Currency Attacks,” The American Economic Review, 88(3), pp. 587–597.
Nagel, R. (1995): “Unraveling in guessing games: An experimental study,” American
Economic Review, 85(5), 1313–1326.
38

Paich, M., and J. D. Sterman (1993): “Boom, bust, and failures to learn in experimental
markets,” Management science, 39(12), 1439–1458.
Rochet, J., and X. Vives (2004): “Coordination Failures and the Lender of Last Resort:
Was Bagehot Right After All?,” Journal of the European Economic Association, 2(6),
1116–1147.
Shapiro, D., X. Shi, and A. Zillante (2014): “Level-k reasoning in a generalized beauty
contest,” Games and Economic Behavior, 86, 308–329.
Shurchkov, O. (2013): “Coordination and learning in dynamic global games: experimental
evidence,” Experimental Economics, 16(3), 313–334.
(2016): “Public announcements and coordination in dynamic global games: Experimental evidence,” Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics, 61, 20–30.
Stahl, D. O., and P. W. Wilson (1995): “On players models of other players: Theory
and experimental evidence,” Games and Economic Behavior, 10(1), 218–254.
Straub, P. (1995): “Risk dominance and coordination failures in static games,” Quarterly
Review of Economics and Finance, 35(4), 339–363.
Szkup, M., and I. Trevino (2020): “Sentiments, strategic uncertainty, and information
structures in coordination games,” Games and Economic Behavior, 124, 534–553.
Van Huyck, J. B., R. C. Battalio, and R. O. Beil (1990): “Tacit Coordination
Games, Strategic Uncertainty, and Coordination Failure,” American Economic Review,
80(1), 234–48.

39

Online Appendix
Proof of Proposition 1.
We first characterize the response of the strategic cutoff for L1 types, Y1∗ . We have that Y1∗
satisfied equation (8)

h
i
EY1∗ (D − U ) P̃1 (Y ) + U = 0
or
Z Y1∗ +
Y1∗ −

(D − U ) [1 − Q (g (Y ))]

We can use a change of variables t =

L1

Ψ

1
(Y1∗ , ) =

Z 1

2

−1

Y −Y1∗


1
dY + U = 0.
2

to write the left-hand side of this condition as

(D − U ) [1 − Q (g (Y1∗ + t))] dt + U,

where g = α + βY , for β < 0. By the implicit function theorem,
∂Y1∗
∂ΨL1 /∂
= − L1
.
∂
∂Ψ /∂Y1∗
Note that
∂ΨL1
1
=−
∗
∂Y1
2

Z 1
−1

(D − U ) q (g (Y1∗ + t)) g 0 (Y1∗ + t) dt,

where q (.) denotes the density of Q (.). Since g 0 = β < 0, it follows ∂ΨL1 /∂Y1∗ > 0. Next,
note that
∂ΨL1
=−
∂

Z 1

(D − U ) q (g (Y1∗ + t)) g 0 (Y1∗ + t) t dt
−1
Z 1
= (D − U ) β
t [q (g (Y1∗ − t)) − q (g (Y1∗ + t))] dt ≤ 0,
0

1

since β < 0 and

q (g (Y1∗ − t)) − q (g (Y1∗ + t))
= q (α + βY1∗ − βt) − q (α + βY1∗ + βt) ≥ 0, ∀t ∈ [0, 1] ,
since q (.) is increasing. Therefore,
∂Y1∗
≥ 0.
∂

(12)

Next, note that the best response function h(x) satisfies
Z h(x)+
Y f (x)

(D − U )

1
dY + U = 0,
2

(13)

where Y f (x) satisfies
 1 Y f (x) − x
.
g Y f (x) = +
2
2
Therefore, by the implicit function theorem,
∂Y f (x)
1
1
=
=
,
0
f
∂x
1 − 2g (Y (x))
1 − 2β
and
h0 (x) =

∂Y f (x)
1
1
=
=
∈ (0, 1) .
0
f
∂x
1 − 2g (Y (x))
1 − 2β

∂
Noting that ∂
(h0 (x)) < 0, it follows that an increase in  leads to flattening of h (x).
∗

∗

)
Furthermore, we have that ∂Y
= ∂h(Y
= 0 (by Corollary 1 in Iachan and Nenov). Hence,
∂
∂

it follows that for x < Y ∗ , h (x) must strictly increase in , while for x > Y ∗ , h (x) must
strictly decrease in , as shown in Figure 3. Moreover,{Yk∗ }∞
k=1 is monotone, so that if

∗
∗
Y1∗ < Y2∗ , then Yk−1
< h Yk−1
= Yk∗ , k > 1, and vice versa for Y1∗ > Y2∗ . Noting that
Y2∗ > Y1∗ , implies Y1∗ < Y ∗ we conclude that
∂Y2∗
∂h (Y1∗ ) ∂Y1∗
=
> 0.
∂
∂
∂
2

By induction, it follows that
∂Yk∗
>0
∂
for any k > 1. Together with (12), we have that

∂Yk∗
> 0, k ≥ 1.
∂

Test of equilibrium behavior
Table 6 reports the results from two t-tests, where we test whether the average cutoffs differ
from the theoretical predictions in each treatment. In the Low Noise treatment, we cannot
reject the null hypothesis of equality at standard levels of statistical significance, while in
the High Noise treatment the average cutoff is significantly different from the equilibrium
prediction at a 10% significance level.32
Treatment Average cutoff Equilibrium cutoff
Low noise
37.1
41.4
High noise
42.9
37.8

p-value
0.15
0.08

Table 6: Two-sided t-test for equality of average cutoffs and equilibrium cutoffs.

Evolution of average cutoffs
The evolution of the average cutoffs over time is shown in Figure 8, which plots the different
average cutoffs in the two treatments for all 8 rounds of play.
32

44 decisions are based on signals within the range [37.8, 41.4] in the first round of play. Within this
range, the proportion of subjects attacking in the High Noise treatment is 61 %, while the proportion of
subjects attacking in the Low Noise treatment is 56 %. The difference is not statistically significant at
conventional levels of significance.

3

Figure 8: Average cutoff for each treatment by round.

Testing for treatment differences using a rank-sum test
We follow a conservative approach and run a Mann-Whitney U-test where we compare the
rank-sums of group cutoffs. The null hypothesis is that the group cutoffs are not higher in
the Low Noise treatment than in the High Noise treatment. The results are shown in Table
7. We reject the null hypothesis with a p-value of 8%.
Treatment
Low Noise
High Noise

Obs
8
8
p-value

Expected Rank sum
68
68

Rank sum
55
81
0.08∗

Table 7: One-sided Mann-Whitney U-test of group cutoffs in the two treatments.

Payoffs and strategic cutoffs in the estimated level-k model
In our experiment, each subject received 20 ECU if not attacking. If a subject chooses
to attack, the payoff is Y ECU in the case of a successful attack and zero otherwise. We
assume players have CRRA preferences with coefficient of relative risk aversion given by α.
Therefore, the strategic cutoff of the Lk type, Yk∗ , solves

4


EYk∗


Y 1−α
201−α
,
P̃k (Y ) =
1−α
1−α

(14)

where the probability of a successful attack that an Lk type assigns, P̃k (Y ), is defined in
Equation (7).

Details on the simulation of the structural model
To simulate the model, we mimic the actual experiment as close as possible and generate
simulated experimental data as follows. Each group in the simulated data consists of 10
players who play 80 simulated games (10 games per round ×8 rounds) where a new fundamental is drawn for each simulated game. In each simulated game, each player is assigned a
type according to the estimated model and plays according to her type with some probability
of trembling. Since each treatment contains 8 groups, we simulate the outcomes from 640
games per treatment (80 × 8 = 640). We compute the mean estimated threshold based on
the signals and actions across the 640 games. We then repeat the simulation 1000 times. A
more detailed pseudo-code is given below.

5

Algorithm 1 Simulation
G_sim = 640
n_sim = 1000
while n ≤ n_sim
foreach τ ∈ {l,h}

while G ≤ G_sim

- Draw a fundamental YG from U [0, 100]
- For each fundamental YG , draw 10 signals xi,G ∼ U [YG − τ , YG + τ ]
- Distribute players into different levelk types
- Derive the probability of tremble and associated action
- Assign actions based on trembling probability and player type
- Store individual signals and actions ai,G

end


G_sim
if ai,G = 1
Define Aτ ≡ min {xi,G }G=1
{xi,G } is the vector of signals across all
 G.


Define

Aτ ≡ max {xi,G }G_sim
G=1

if ai,G = 0

{xi,G } is the vector of signals across all G.
A + Aτ
Define θ̂τ,n ≡ τ
2
end
Define ∆θ̂n ≡ θ̂l,n − θ̂h,n
end
Plot the CDF of ∆θ̂n

Estimated trembling probabilities in the structural model

Figure 9 plots histograms of νdk aiq , λ , the estimated actual trembling probability for each
subject i and decision instance q, for the three different Lk-types in our baseline structural
model, namely k ∈ {1, 2, ∞}, where dk is given in equation (11). The trembling probabilities
6

are computed using the estimated parameters from Table ?? and the actual signals observed
and decisions made by subjects in the first round of play.

Experimental instructions for high-noise treatment (on next page)

7

P 2060

General information
Thank you for your participation in an economic experiment, in which you have the chance to
earn money. We ask you not to communicate from now on. If you have a question, then raise
your hand, and one of the instructors will come to you.
You are a member of a group of 10 persons, who interact with another. The rules are the same
for all participants. The experiment consists of 8 independent rounds. In each round you will
receive 10 independent situations, in each of which you have to make a decision (A or B).
You will stay in the same group of 10 persons through all of the 8 independent rounds.
Decision situation:
For each situation a number called Y is selected randomly from the interval 0 to 100. This
number is the same for all participants. All numbers in the interval [0, 100] have the same
probability to be drawn. When you make your decision, you will not know the drawn number Y.
However, each participant will receive a hint number for the unknown number Y. This hint
number is randomly selected from the interval [Y-20, Y+20]. All numbers in this interval have
the same probability to be drawn. Hint numbers of different participants are drawn independently
from the same interval.
On basis of your hint number you can decide in each situation between two different decisions:
A or B.
If you decide for A, then an amount of 20 ECU (Experimental Currency Unit) is credited to your
account. This amount is the same for all rounds and for all participants.
If you decide for B, then your payoff depends on how many participants select the same decision
B and also depends on how large is the unknown number Y. Decision B is the more successful,
the more participants decide for B and the larger the number Y is. If the number of participants
who decide for B is at least 1/6*(80-Y) , then each participant, who decided for B, receives
the amount of Y ECU. A more exact explanation of this formula is given with the help of an
example and the table at the end of the instructions. If fewer participants decided for B, then
those choosing B receive zero ECU.
Once all participants made their 10 decisions for the 10 games, a round is terminated. (Remember
there are 8 rounds in total).
Information after each round
Each participant will be informed after each round for each of the 10 games on
(1) the number Y,
(2) how many participants decided for A or B,
(3) the own payoff over all 10 games.

1

Figure 9: Estimated trembling probabilities.
(a) L1-types

(b) L2-types

(c) Equilibrium types

9

Example:
The number of participants is 10. The payoff for A is always 20. The unknown number Y, which
was drawn, is 40.
The hint numbers drawn for the ten participants are: 35.89, 45.24, 42.67 etc.
The participant with the hint number 35.89 knows that Y is between 15,89 and 55,89, the
participant with the hint number 45.24 knows that Y is between 25,24 and 65,24, etc.
Three participants decide for A, seven participants decide for B.
The participants who chose A receive 20 ECU.
In order to receive a positive payoff for B, at least 1/6*(80-40)=6,68 ≈ 7 (remember the formula
1/6*(80-Y)) participants have to decide for B (that is 7 or more). Since 7 participants selected
B, each of them receives Y = 40.
For the calculation of the minimum number of the participants needed such that payoff for B is
positive see attached table:
Note: You don’t know the true value of Y, but you receive a hint number, which is an approximation of Y. Therefore you cannot exactly determine, how many players must select B, in order
to get a positive payoff.

2

For the calculation of the minimum number of participants who have to choose B
in order to get a positive payoff for B: Participants who choose B, receive a positive
payoff, only if at least 1/6*(80-Y) participants choose B:
In the right hand column you find the minimal number of participants and in the left column
the according intervals for Y.

If the unknown number Y is in the interval,
(Note: Y is between 0 and 100)
0 to 19.99
20.00 to 25.99
26.00 to 31.99
32.00 to 37.99
38.00 to 43.99
44.00 to 49.99
50.00 to 55.99
56.00 to 61.99
62.00 to 67.99
68.00 to 73.99
74.00 to 100.00

Then at least ... of the 10 participants
(including yourself) have to select B in
order to get a positive payoff
More than 10
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1

Instructions for PC:
Each round is divided into a decision phase and into an information phase. During the decision
phase the screen shows the current round in the heading line (period). The second line informs
you about the sure payoff for decision A. The following table shows your hint number for each
game in the left column. In the right column you must click which decision you want to select.
Once you decided for all 10 games, you must press the red OK button. As long as you have not
pressed the red button, you can still modify your decisions. When exceeding the time limit you
are reminded to make your decisions.
When all participants have pressed the OK-button, the decision phase of a round is terminated
and the information phase begins. The display in the information phase indicates line by line
for each situation of this round the true value Y, the number of players, who decided for B,
your own decision, and the change of your account balance. After the time limit the next round
starts. In addition you can leave the information phase beforehand through the gray OK button.
After leaving the information screen you have no more possibility to inform yourself about passed
decisions.
Questionnaire:
At the end of the experiment we ask you to fill out a questionnaire.

Payoffs:
Also at the end of the experiment the ECUs you have obtained are converted into NOK and
paid in cash. 17 ECU corresponds to 1 NOK.
3

