Edinburgh Research Explorer
On information design in games

Citation for published version:
Mathevet, L, Perego, J & Taneva, I 2020, 'On information design in games', Journal of Political Economy,
vol. 128, no. 4, pp. 1370-1404. https://doi.org/10.1086/705332

Digital Object Identifier (DOI):
10.1086/705332
Link:
Link to publication record in Edinburgh Research Explorer
Document Version:
Publisher's PDF, also known as Version of record

Published In:
Journal of Political Economy

General rights
Copyright for the publications made accessible via the Edinburgh Research Explorer is retained by the author(s)
and / or other copyright owners and it is a condition of accessing these publications that users recognise and
abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights.
Take down policy
The University of Edinburgh has made every reasonable effort to ensure that Edinburgh Research Explorer
content complies with UK legislation. If you believe that the public display of this file breaches copyright please
contact openaccess@ed.ac.uk providing details, and we will remove access to the work immediately and
investigate your claim.

Download date: 24. Feb. 2026

On Information Design in Games

Laurent Mathevet
New York University

Jacopo Perego
Columbia University

Ina Taneva
University of Edinburgh

Information provision in games influences behavior by affecting agents’
beliefs about the state as well as their higher-order beliefs. We first characterize the extent to which a designer can manipulate agents’ beliefs by
disclosing information. We then describe the structure of optimal belief
distributions, including a concave-envelope representation that subsumes the single-agent result of Kamenica and Gentzkow. This result
holds under various solution concepts and outcome selection rules. Finally, we use our approach to compute an optimal information structure
in an investment game under adversarial equilibrium selection.

I. Introduction
Monetary incentives, such as taxes, fines, wages, and insurance are ways
of manipulating agents’ payoffs to incentivize a range of behaviors, from
exerting effort to risk taking. In incomplete-information environments,

We are grateful to the editor, Emir Kamenica, and to three anonymous referees for their
comments and suggestions, which significantly improved the paper. Special thanks are due
to Anne-Katrin Roesler for her insightful comments as a discussant at the 2016 Cowles
Electronically published March 3, 2020
[ Journal of Political Economy, 2020, vol. 128, no. 4]
© 2020 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved. 0022-3808/2020/12804-00XX$10.00

000

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

strategic transmission of information may also be used as a tool to affect
agents’ behavior, in this case by manipulating their beliefs. Information
design analyzes the latter, in a setting where a designer commits to disclosing information to a group of interacting agents.
Under incomplete information, agents’ behavior depends, in part, on
their beliefs about the uncertain state of the world. For example, an investor’s belief about the quality of a new technology influences his decision whether or not to invest in the startup that launches it. However, his
decision also depends on how likely he thinks other investors are to fund
the startup, which in turn depends on their own beliefs about the state
and other investors’ decisions. Thus, an agent’s beliefs about the other
agents’ beliefs about the state also affect his decision, as do his beliefs
about their beliefs about his beliefs about the state, and so on. These
higher-order beliefs are absent from the single-agent environment, but
they are an important part of the information-design problem with multiple interacting agents.
This paper contributes to the foundations of information design in
three ways. First, we characterize the feasible distributions of agents’ beliefs that a designer can induce through the choice of information structure. Information design is ultimately an exercise in belief manipulation,
whether it is explicitly modeled as such or solved by way of incentivecompatible distributions over actions and states. However, an information designer cannot induce just any belief distribution she wishes to.
In the single-agent case, for example, the designer is constrained to distributions over beliefs about the state that on average equal the prior, a
condition known as Bayes plausibility (Kamenica and Gentzkow 2011). In
the multiagent case, an additional requirement emerges: agents’ beliefs
should be consistent with one another. We further establish an equivalence between (Bayes-plausible and consistent) distributions of agents’
beliefs and distributions of the designer’s beliefs, which is particularly
useful in applications.
Second, we represent the designer’s problem in a way that exploits the
structure of consistent belief distributions. We show that every consistent
Foundation conference and to Philippe Jehiel, Elliot Lipnowski, Stephen Morris, David
Pearce, József Sákovics, and Siyang Xiong for their helpful comments and conversations.
We are also grateful to Andrew Clausen, Olivier Compte, Jon Eguia, Willemien Kets, Matt
Jackson, Qingmin Liu, Efe Ok, Ennio Stacchetti, and Max Stinchcombe, as well as to seminar audiences at Columbia University, Institut d’Anàlisi Econòmica, New York University,
Michigan State University, the Paris School of Economics, Stony Brook University, the University of Cambridge, the University of Edinburgh, the University of Texas at Austin, the
SIRE (Scottish Institute for Research in Economics) BIC (Behaviors, Incentives and Contracts) Workshop, the 2016 Decentralization Conference, the 2016 Canadian Economic
Theory conference, the 2016 Cowles Foundation conference, the 2016 North American
Summer Meeting of the Econometric Society, and the SAET (Society for the Advancement
of Economic Theory) Conference 2017. Taneva acknowledges financial support from
ESRC (Economic and Social Research Council) grant ES/N00776X/1.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

belief distribution can be represented as a (convex) combination of more
“basic” elements, themselves belief distributions. Therefore, the problem
of choosing an optimal information structure is equivalent to choosing an
optimal combination of such basic elements, subject to Bayes plausibility.
From this follows a two-step approach to the information-design problem:
the first step optimizes among the basic elements only, and the second
step optimally combines the elements selected in the first step, subject
to Bayes plausibility. The latter step corresponds to the concavification
of a value function derived in the first step. Therefore, this representation
subsumes the single-agent result of Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011). This
two-step decomposition can be interpreted as optimizing over private information in the first step and then adding an optimal public signal in the
second step.
Third, the above results apply to a variety of solution concepts and
equilibrium-selection rules. The choice of solution concept can address
many problems in information design, in much the same way that it does
in mechanism design. For example, a designer may be concerned that
agents have only bounded depths of reasoning, that they can deviate in
coalitions, or that they can communicate. A designer may also want to
hedge against the possibility that, when there are multiple outcomes
(consistent with the solution concept), agents might coordinate on the
outcome most unfavorable to her. This can be achieved by choosing a robust information structure, which maximizes the designer’s payoff under
an adversarial selection rule. Current methods have focused on BayesNash equilibrium (BNE) as a solution concept and designer-preferred
equilibrium selection.
We apply our approach to an investment game where the coordination motive is a source of multiple equilibria under incomplete information and the designer would like to maximize investment. In this problem, as in other similar ones, the possibility that agents coordinate on
the equilibrium least preferred by the designer is a serious issue. In response, the designer may want to choose the information structure that
maximizes investment probabilities in the worst equilibrium. Information design under such adversarial equilibrium selection is outside the
scope of existing methods. We use our approach to compute the optimal
information structure that takes on a simple form: every agent receives
either a private message that makes investing uniquely optimal because
of a combination of first- and higher-order beliefs or a public message
that makes it common knowledge that the state is low, and hence not investing is uniquely optimal. The private messages create contagion à la
Rubinstein (1989), which we refer to as the bandwagon effect: one message induces a first-order belief that is high enough to incentivize investment by itself, while all other messages aim to cause investment by an induction argument that uses beliefs of incrementally higher order.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

The single-agent problem has been a rich subject of study since the influential work of Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011). The standard problem
is mathematically analogous to Aumann and Maschler (1995), which
studies a repeated game with an informed player who exploits his knowledge against an uninformed opponent.1 By contrast, the theory of information design in games is not as well understood. Bergemann and Morris
(2016) and Taneva (2019) formulate the Myersonian approach to BayesNash information design. This approach is based on a notion of correlated
equilibrium under incomplete information, Bayes correlated equilibrium
(BCE), which characterizes all possible BNE outcomes that could arise
under all information structures. The BCE approach elegantly avoids
the explicit modeling of belief hierarchies and proves useful for solving
information-design problems by means of linear programming. However,
it fundamentally relies on BNE as a solution concept and on selecting the
designer-preferred equilibrium in case of multiplicity. In contrast, our results develop the belief-based approach to information design, which can
be viewed as the multiagent analog to Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011)’s
single-agent formulation. Earlier works have studied the effects of public
and private information on equilibrium behavior, efficiency, and welfare
(e.g., Vives 1988; Morris and Shin 2002; Angeletos and Pavan 2007). More
recent papers study the optimal design of information in voting games
(Alonso and Câmara 2016; Chan et al. 2019), dynamic bank runs (Ely
2017), stress testing (Inostroza and Pavan 2017), auctions (Bergemann,
Brooks, and Morris 2017), or contests (Zhang and Zhou 2016) or focus
on public information in games (Laclau and Renou 2016).

II. The Information-Design Problem
A set N 5 f1, ::: , ng of agents interact in an uncertain environment. The
variable v ∈ V describes the uncertain state of the world, where the set V
is finite. Every agent i ∈ N has
Q a finite action set Ai and utility function
ui : A  V → R, where A 5 i Ai . A priori, the agents know only that v
is distributed according to m0 ∈ DV, which is common knowledge. We refer to G 5 ðV, m0 , N , fAi g, fui gÞ as the base game.
A designer commits to disclosing information to the agents about the
payoff-relevant state v. This is modeled by an information structure (S, p),
where
Q Si ⊆ S is the finite set of messages that agent i can receive,
S 5 i Si is the set of message profiles, and p : V → DðSÞ is the information

1
Other early contributions to single-agent information design include models by Brocas
and Carrillo (2007) and Rayo and Segal (2010).

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

map.2 In any state v, the message profile s 5 ðsi Þ is drawn according to
pðsjvÞ, and agent i privately observes si. An information structure can
be thought of as an experiment concerning the state, such as an audit,
a stress test, or a medical test. As is standard in information design, this
model assumes that the designer commits to the information structure
at a time when she does not know the realized state but knows only its distribution m0.3 The information designer’s preferences are summarized by
the payoff function v : A  V → R. Her objective is to maximize her expected payoff through the choice of information structure.
The combination of information structure and base game, G 5
hG, ðS, pÞi, constitutes a Bayesian game in which agents play according to
a solution concept ΣðGÞ ⊆ fj 5 ðji Þ j ji : Si → DAi for all ig. The resulting
outcomes are distributions over action profiles and states, represented
by
O Σ ðGÞ 5 fg ∈ DðA  VÞ : there exists j ∈ ΣðGÞ such that
gða, vÞ 5 os jðajsÞpðsjvÞm0 ðvÞ for all ða, vÞg:
Assume that O Σ is nonempty and compact valued. Given that G is finite,
this holds when Σ is a BNE, for example. For a fixed base game, we just
write O Σ(S, p). When O Σ contains multiple outcomes, the designer expects that one of them will happen, which is described by a selection rule
g that associates to any D ⊆ DðV  AÞ an element g ðDÞ ∈ D. The worst
and the best outcomes are natural selection criteria. A pessimistic designer, or one interested in robust information design, expects the worst
outcome:
g ðDÞ ∈ argminogða, vÞvða, vÞ
g∈D

(1)

a,v

for all compact D ⊆ DðV  AÞ. An optimistic designer would instead expect the best equilibrium, with argmax instead of argmin in (1). Other
criteria, such as random-choice rules, could also be considered. Letting
g ðS,pÞ ≔ g ðO Σ ðS, pÞÞ, the designer’s ex ante expected payoff is given by
V ðS, pÞ ≔ og ðS,pÞ ða, vÞ vða, vÞ:

(2)

a,v

Finally, the information-design problem is supðS,pÞ V ðS, pÞ.
2
We restrict our attention to finite message spaces, because doing so guarantees existence of a BNE for all information structures. Any infinite set S would serve the purpose.
3
While commitment can be a strong assumption in some situations, it holds implicitly
in repeated environments wherein a sender makes announcements periodically and wants
to be trusted in the future (Best and Quigley 2018; Mathevet, Pearce, and Stacchetti 2018).

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

III. Information Design as Belief Manipulation
We reformulate information design into a belief-manipulation problem,
analogously to Kamenica and Gentzkow’s (2011) approach to the singleagent case. Choosing an information structure is equivalent to choosing
a distribution over belief hierarchies. However, only a special class of belief
(hierarchy) distributions can be induced by information structures. Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011) established that choosing an information
structure is equivalent to choosing a Bayes-plausible distribution over firstorder beliefs. We show that a similar equivalence holds in games, provided
that agents’ beliefs are, in addition, consistent with each other.
A.

Belief Distributions

A belief hierarchy ti for agent i is an infinite sequence (ti1 , ti2 , :::) whose components are coherent beliefs of all orders:4 ti1 ∈ DV is i’s first-order belief,
ti2 ∈ DðV  ðDVÞn21 Þ is i’s second-order belief (i.e., a belief about v and every j’s first-order beliefs), and so on. Even if the belief hierarchies are coherent, they may assign positive probability to other agents’ belief hierarchies that are not coherent. Brandenburger and Dekel (1993) show that
we can construct a set of coherent belief hierarchies Ti for every i such that
there exists a homeomorphism b*i : Ti → DðV  T2i Þ for all i.5 This map describes i’s beliefs about (v, t2i), given ti, and shows that there are sets of coherent belief hierarchies for all agents that put only positive probabilities
Q
on each other, making coherency common knowledge. Let T ≔ i Ti be
the space of hierarchy profiles with common knowledge of coherency.
Given m0 and an information structure (S, p), and upon receiving a message si, agent i formulates beliefsQmi ðsi Þ ∈ DðV  S2i Þ about the state and
other agents’ messages in S2i ≔ j≠i Sj by using Bayes’s rule. In particular,
m1i ðsi Þ ≔ margV mi ðsi Þ describes i’s belief about the state, given si, called firstorder belief. Since every j has a first-order belief m1j ðsj Þ for every message sj, i’s
belief about sj (given si) gives i a belief about m1j ðsj Þ. This belief about j’s belief about the state is i’s second-order belief m2i ðsi Þ, given si.6 Since every j has
a second-order belief m2j ðsj Þ for every sj, i can formulate a third-order belief, given si, and so on. By induction, every si induces a belief hierarchy
hi ðsi Þ ∈ Ti for agent i, and every message profile s induces a profile of belief
hierarchies hðsÞ ≔ ðhi ðsi ÞÞi∈N .

4
A hierarchy t is coherent if any belief tik coincides with all beliefs of lower order, ftin gk21
n51 ,
on lower-order events: margX tik 5 tik21 for all k ≥ 1 where Xk21 5 supp tik21 .
5
We often write b*i ðt2i jti Þ and b*i ðvjti Þ to refer to the corresponding marginals.
6
Technically speaking, a second-order belief also includes a first-order belief.
k21

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

TABLE 1
A (Public) Information Structure

p(⋅F0):
s10
s200
p(⋅F1):
s10
s200

s10

s200

1
0

0
0

1/2
0

0
1/2

Deﬁnition 1. An information structure (S, p) induces a distribution
t ∈ DT over profiles of belief hierarchies, called a belief(-hierarchy) distribution, if
tðtÞ 5 opðfs : hðsÞ 5 tgjvÞm0 ðvÞ

(3)

v

for all t.
For example, the information structure in table 1 induces t 5
ð3=4Þt1=3 1 ð1=4Þt1 when m0 ≔ m0 ðv 5 1Þ 5 1=2, where tm is the hierarchy
profile in which m ≔ mðv 5 1Þ is commonly believed.7
We categorize belief distributions as public or private. This distinction is
closely linked to the nature of information that induces those distributions.
Deﬁnition 2. A belief distribution t is public if ti1 5 tj1 and
margT b*i ðjti Þ 5 dt (where d is the Dirac measure) for all t ∈ supp t
and jsupp tj ≥ 2. A belief distribution t is private if it is not public.
The first part says that agents share the same first-order beliefs and
that this is commonly believed among them. This is the natural translation in terms of beliefs of the standard notion of public information.
Note also that we categorize the degenerate case jsupp tj 5 1 as private.
When the support is a singleton, this distinction is indeed mostly a matter of semantics; yet the current choice makes our characterization below more transparent.
2i

2i

B. Manipulation
Consider an environment with two agents and two equally likely states
v ∈ f0, 1g. For each agent i 5 1, 2, consider two belief hierarchies, ti and
ti0 , such that
b*i ðtj jti Þ 5 b*i ðtj0 jti0 Þ 5 1

8 i, j ≠ i,

(4)

7
To see why, note that Prðs10 , s20 Þ 5 3=4, Prðs100 , s200 Þ 5 1=4, and an agent i receiving message si0 has belief 1=3 that v 5 1 and is certain that j also received sj0, while si00 has belief 1 that
v 5 1 and is certain that j also received sj00.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

b*1 ðv 5 1jt1 Þ 5 b*1 ðv 5 1jt 20 Þ 5 0:8, and b*1 ðv 5 1jt10 Þ 5 b*1 ðv 5 1jt 2 Þ 5
0:2. In words, at (t1, t 2) and (t10 , t 20 ), the agents believe that v 5 1 with different probabilities, 0.8 or 0.2, and this disagreement is commonly
known. Can the belief-hierarchy distribution tðtÞ 5 tðt 0 Þ 5 1=2 be induced by some information structure? More generally, can the designer
ever get agents to agree to disagree? Since Aumann (1976), we have
known that Bayesian agents cannot agree to disagree if they have a common prior. Say that p ∈ DðV  T Þ is a common prior if
pðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þpðti Þ

(5)

for all v, t, and i. That is, all agents i obtain their belief map b*i by Bayesian
updating of the same distribution p. Denote by Df the probability measures with finite support. Define


(6)
C ≔ t ∈ Df T : ∃ a common prior p such that t 5 margT p
to be the space of consistent (belief-hierarchy) distributions. In a consistent distribution, all agents’ beliefs arise from a common prior that draws
every t with the same probability as t, that is, t 5 margT p. Let pt be the
unique distribution p in (6) (uniqueness follows from proposition 4.5
of Mertens and Zamir 1985).
Note that consistency does not require that margV p 5 m0 , which is a
conceptually different point. A distribution t ∈ Df T is Bayes plausible for
agent i if

omarg b* ðjt Þt ðt Þ 5 m ,
V

i

i

i

i

0

ti

that is, if agent i’s expected first-order belief equals the state distribution.
Proposition 1. There exists an information structure that induces
t ∈ Df T if and only if t is consistent and Bayes plausible for some agent i.
This characterization, which builds upon Mertens and Zamir (1985), disciplines the designer’s freedom in shaping agents’ beliefs. In the one-agent
case, information disclosure is equivalent to choosing a Bayes-plausible
distribution over first-order beliefs. In the multiagent case, it is equivalent
to choosing a consistent distribution over belief hierarchies that is Bayes
plausible for some agent. Importantly, it does not matter which agent i satisfies Bayes plausibility, because by consistency, if it is true for one agent,
then it will hold for all.
Note, however, that merely ensuring that Bayes plausibility holds for
all agents does not guarantee consistency. In the simple example above,
t is Bayes plausible for both agents and yet fails consistency, because b*1 ðv 5
1, t 02 jt10 Þ  ð1=2Þ 5 0:2  ð1=2Þ ≠ b*2 ðv 5 1, t10 jt 02 Þ  ð1=2Þ 5 0:8  ð1=2Þ violates
equation (5).
From an operational viewpoint, there are two distinct ways of designing a consistent belief-hierarchy distribution. The first one is to design

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

the distributions of agents’ beliefs individually and then couple them so
as to ensure consistency (see Ely 2017 for a related procedure). A
different approach, formulated in the next proposition, is to design
the distribution of designer’s beliefs and then to derive from it the resulting consistent distribution of agents’ beliefs.
Proposition 2. t ∈ Df ðT Þ is consistent and Bayes plausible if and only
if there exists n : supp t → DV such that, for all t, v, and i,

otðtÞnðvjtÞ 5 m ðvÞ,

(7)

0

t

nðvjti , t2i Þ 5 b*i ðvjti , t2i Þ ≔
tðt2i jti Þ 5 b*i ðt2i jti Þ:

b*i ðv, t2i jti Þ
,
b*i ðt2i jti Þ

(8)
(9)

Whereas each agent i observes only ti, the designer observes the entire
hierarchy profile t 5 ðt1 , :::, tn Þ and hence is better informed than every
single agent. In the above, n(t) is interpreted as the designer’s beliefs
about the state, obtained by conditioning on t. The result demonstrates
that any consistent and Bayes-plausible belief-hierarchy distribution corresponds to a specific distribution of designer’s beliefs, and vice versa—a
relationship governed by three conditions. The first one states that the
average of the designer’s beliefs is equal to the distribution of states. This
is a form of Bayes plausibility at the designer’s level. The second requires
that the designer’s beliefs about the state be the same as what any agent
would believe if he also knew the information of all the other agents.
The last condition requires that i ’s conditional beliefs about the other
agents’ hierarchies can be derived from t by conditioning on i’s belief
hierarchy. This result suggests a different way of approaching the design
of (consistent and Bayes-plausible) belief-hierarchy distributions: it is
equivalent to designing the distribution of the designer’s beliefs subject
to Bayes plausibility in equation (7) and deriving the agents’ hierarchies
via equations (8) and (9). We demonstrate how this can be a useful way
of implementing consistency in section V.
C. Outcomes from Belief Distributions
To complete the formulation of information design in the space of beliefs, the equivalence between information structures and belief distributions should be more than epistemic; it should be about outcomes. For
any consistent distribution t, let a solution concept be a collection ΣB ðtÞ
of sets L ⊆fj : suppt → DAg.8 This describes agents’ behavior in the
8
We thank Daniel Clark for pointing out an error; this led to a substantial improvement
of this section.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

Bayesian game hG, pti, where pt is the unique common prior p such that
margT p 5 t. The different Ls capture possibly correlated behaviors,
enabled by the addition of different (belief-preserving) correlating devices to t (see Liu 2009). Given any L ∈ ΣB ðtÞ, the resulting outcomes are
OL ðtÞ ≔ fg ∈ DðA  VÞ : there exists j ∈ L such that
gða, vÞ 5 ojðajtÞpt ðt, vÞ for all ða, vÞg,
t

from which it follows that the designer’s ex ante expected payoff from a
consistent distribution t is
wðtÞ ≔ sup og ðOL ðtÞÞða, vÞv ða, vÞ:

(10)

L∈ΣB ðtÞ v,a

Note that ΣB is useful only insofar as it captures the appropriate outcomes from solution concept Σ. Hence, we assume that L ∈ ΣB ðtÞ if
and only if L is such that OL ðtÞ 5 O Σ ðS, pÞ for some (S, p) inducing t.
In general, it is well known that a given solution concept may not yield
the same set of outcomes when applied to an information structure as
when applied to the corresponding belief distribution (e.g., Ely and
Peski 2006; Liu 2009). Indeed, even if (S, p) induces t, there may be multiple message profiles s inducing the same hierarchy profile t, thus creating opportunities for redundant correlations of agents’ behavior that
are not possible in t. In some cases, the literature makes clear which ΣB
should be chosen, given Σ. For example, if Σ 5 BNE, then said correlations can be recovered (without affecting the beliefs in t) by taking ΣB to
be Liu’s (2015) belief-preserving correlated equilibrium. Alternatively, if
Σ is interim correlated rationalizability (ICR; Dekel, Fudenberg, and
Morris 2007), then ΣB should also be ICR.

IV. Representation of Optimal Solutions
In this section, we prove that optimal solutions to information-design
problems in games can be seen as a combination of special distributions.
As a consequence, all optimal solutions can be decomposed into optimal
purely private and optimal public components, where the latter come
from concavification.
A.

Assumptions

Our approach can handle various selection rules and solution concepts,
provided the following assumptions hold.
Linear Selection. For all D 0 , D 00 ⊆ DðV  AÞ and 0 ≤ a ≤ 1, g ðaD 0 1
ð1 2 aÞD 00 Þ 5 ag ðD 0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞg ðD 00 Þ.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

Invariant Solution. Fix t, t0 , t00 ∈ C such that supp t 5 supp t0 [
supp t00 and supp t0 \ supp t00 5 ∅. L ∈ ΣB ðtÞ if and only if there exist
L0 ∈ ΣB ðt0 Þ and L00 ∈ ΣB ðt00 Þ such that L 5 fj : supp t → DA : jjsuppt ∈ L0
and jjsuppt ∈ L00 g.
Linearity of g is a natural assumption that requires the selection criterion to be independent of the subsets of outcomes to which it is applied.
The best and the worst outcomes, defined in (1), are linear selection criteria. However, selecting the best outcome within one subset and the
worst in another breaks linearity, unless the outcome is always unique.
Invariance says that play at a profile of belief hierarchies t under ΣB is
independent of the ambient distribution from which t is drawn. For instance, Liu’s (2015) correlated equilibrium satisfies invariance. And
when Σ 5 ICR (Dekel, Fudenberg, and Morris 2007), ΣB 5 Σ, which also
satisfies invariance. Invariance is important because it allows us to recover the outcomes from any consistent distribution through appropriate randomizations over distributions with smaller supports and, thus,
ensures linearity of the ex-ante payoff (proposition 4 and lemma 3 in
sec. A3).
0

00

B. Representations
Information design exhibits a convex structure when seen as belief manipulation. From any consistent t 0 and t 00, the designer can build a third distribution, t 5 at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 , which can be induced by an information
structure, provided that it is Bayes plausible. In particular, this is true even
if t 0 and t 00 are themselves not Bayes plausible. In technical terms, C is convex and, moreover, admits extreme points.9 In the tradition of extremal
representation theorems,10 the designer generates a consistent and
Bayes-plausible distribution by randomizing over extreme points, and any
consistent and Bayes-plausible distribution can be generated in this way.
By proposition 1, any information structure can thus be interpreted as a
convex combination of extreme points. Importantly, these extreme points
have a useful characterization: they are the minimal consistent distributions
(see lemma 2 in sec. A3). A consistent distribution t ∈ C is minimal if there
is no t0 ∈ C such that supp t0 ⊊ supp t. Let CM denote the set of all minimal
distributions,11 which is nonempty by basic inclusion arguments. From this
definition follows a nice interpretation in terms of information. The minimal distributions correspond to purely private information. By definition,
9
An extreme point of C is an element t ∈ C with the property that if t 5 at0 1ð1 2 aÞt00 ,
given t0 , t00 ∈ C and a ∈ ½0, 1, then t0 5 t or t00 5 t.
10
For example, the Minkowski-Caratheodory theorem, the Krein-Milman theorem, and
Choquet’s integral representation theorem.
11
Minimal belief subspaces appeared in contexts other than information design in
Heifetz and Neeman (2006), Barelli (2009), and Yildiz (2015).

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

any nonminimal distribution t contains two consistent components with
support supp t 0 and supptnsuppt0 . A public signal makes it common
knowledge among the agents which of these two components their beliefs are in. Since a minimal belief distribution has only one component,
it contains no such public signal. As such, it is purely private information
(possibly degenerate).
Owing to their mathematical status as extreme points, the minimal
consistent distributions correspond to the basic elements from which
all other consistent distributions can be constructed. In the single-agent
case, the minimal distributions are the agent’s first-order beliefs. The results below formalize their special role in information design.12
Theorem 1 (Representation theorem). The designer’s maximization
problem can be represented as

o wðeÞlðeÞ

supV ðS, pÞ 5 sup
ðS,pÞ

l∈Df ðCM Þ

e∈suppl

subject to

o margV pe lðeÞ 5 m0 :

(11)

e∈suppl

Corollary 1 (Within-between maximizations).
w * ðmÞ ≔

sup

For any m ∈ DV, let

wðeÞ:

(12)

e∈CM : margV pe 5m

Then, the designer’s maximization problem can be represented as
supV ðS, pÞ 5 sup
ðS,pÞ

l∈Df DV

o w * ðmÞlðmÞ,

suppl

subject to o mlðmÞ 5 m0 :

(13)

suppl

From the representation theorem, the designer maximizes her expected
payoff as if she were optimally randomizing over minimal consistent distributions, subject to posterior beliefs averaging to m0 across those distributions. Every minimal distribution e induces a Bayesian game and leads to
an outcome for which the designer receives expected payoff w(e). Every
minimal distribution has a (marginal) distribution on states, margV pe 5
m, and the “farther” that is from m0, the “costlier” it is for the designer to
use it. In this sense, the constraint in equation (11) can be seen as a form
of budget constraint.
12
We further illustrate the notion of minimal distribution in the supplementary appendix (available online), by characterizing minimal distributions for public and conditionally
independent information.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

The corollary decomposes the representation theorem into two steps.
First, there is a maximization within—given by equation (12)—that takes
place among all the minimal distributions with margV pe 5 m and for all
m. All minimal distributions with the same m contribute equally toward the
Bayes-plausibility constraint; hence, the designer should choose the best
one among them, that is, the one that gives the highest value of w(e). Interestingly, maximization within delivers the optimal value of private information, which takes the form of a value function m ↦ w * ðmÞ. The possibility to identify the optimal value of private information comes from the
fact that all minimal distributions represent purely private information.
Second, there is a maximization between that concavifies the value function,
thereby optimally randomizing between the minimal distributions that
maximize within. This step is akin to a public signal l that “sends” all agents
to different minimal distributions e, thus making e common knowledge.
From standard arguments (Rockafellar 1970, 36), the right-hand side of
equation (13) is a characterization of the concave envelope of w*, defined
as ðcavw * ÞðmÞ 5 inffg ðmÞ: g concave and g ≥ w * g. Hence, the corollary delivers a concave-envelope characterization of optimal design. In the oneagent case, fe ∈ CM such that margV pe 5 mg 5 fmg; hence, w * 5 w in
equation (12) and the theorem reduces to maximization between.
The above decomposition is most useful when maximization within is
performed over a restricted set of minimal belief distributions. Such restrictions are made in the context of constrained information design. For example, in some applications, it may be appropriate to limit the maximization
within to conditionally independent private information. Alternatively,
there are environments in which imposing restrictions can be done without
loss of generality. This is shown in the application of the next section, where
consistency, Bayes plausibility, and the payoff externalities impose enough
structure that the unconstrained optimal solution can be computed by restricting maximization within to a small subset of minimal belief distributions. Whether these restrictions constrain the optimal solution or not,
the restricted set of minimal belief distributions forms the smallest class
of distributions from which that optimal solution can be derived by means
of concavification.

V. Application: Fostering Investment
under Adversarial Selection
Monetary incentives have been used to stimulate investment and technology adoption (e.g., tax incentives by governments), to stabilize banks
and currencies (e.g., financial interventions by central banks), and to increase efforts in organizations (e.g., compensation schemes by companies). In such situations, often characterized by coordination motives,

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy
TABLE 2
Investment Game
(u1, u2)

Invest (I)

Do Not Invest (N)

Invest (I)
Do not invest (N)

v, v
0, v 2 1

v 2 1, 0
0, 0

the strategic provision of information by a third party constitutes a different way of leveraging the underlying complementarities.
We consider the problem of fostering investment in an interaction
where two agents are choosing whether or not to invest, {I, N}, given
an uncertain state v ∈ f21, 2g. The payoffs of the interaction are summarized in table 2. Let m0 ≔ Probðv 5 2Þ > 0 denote the probability of the
high state.
Under complete information, each agent has a dominant strategy to
invest when v 5 2 and not to invest when v 5 21. Under incomplete information, however, a coordination problem arises. An agent with a
“moderate” belief that v 5 2 will invest if and only if he believes that
the other agent is likely enough to invest as well. This gives rise to multiple equilibria.13
Consider an information-design problem with the following features.
1. The designer wants to stimulate investment and values the complementarities between agents. This is modeled by a symmetric and
monotone payoff function: vðI, IÞ > vðI, NÞ 5 vðN, IÞ > vðN, NÞ 5
0, such that vðI, IÞ ≥ ð3=2ÞvðI, NÞ. The latter condition includes all
supermodular designers.14
2. The solution concept is BNE.
3. The “min” selection rule, defined in (1), chooses the worst BNE
outcome.
Adversarial equilibrium selection, defined by the min in feature 3, corresponds to a form of robust information design: the designer aims to
maximize the payoff she would obtain if the worst equilibrium for her
were played. When there are multiple equilibria, it is difficult to predict
which one the agents will coordinate on. Therefore, in environments
13
This game differs in an important way from Carlsson and van Damme (1993) and Morris
and Shin (2003), because the coordination problem arises only under incomplete information. It also differs from Rubinstein (1989), Kajii and Morris (1997), and Hoshino (2018),
because no equilibrium of the complete-information game is robust to the introduction
of incomplete information. For example, (N, N) is a dominant equilibrium in the low state
v 5 21, which makes (I, I) sensitive to the introduction of incomplete information.
14
Supermodular (submodular) designers are those for which vðI, IÞ 1 vðN, NÞ ≥
ð≤Þ vðN, IÞ 1 vðI, NÞ.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

where erroneous coordination can be particularly detrimental, it is especially important that information be designed to secure the highest possible payoff.
The current method available for Bayes-Nash information design, based
on BCE (see Bergemann and Morris 2016 and Taneva 2019), cannot be
used to solve this problem, because it does not apply to adversarial selection. To see why, consider any m0 ∈ ½1=2, 2=3Þ. The solution to the BCE
program prescribes to provide no information to the agents, namely,
p* ðI, IjvÞ 5 1 for all v. This is because the BCE method implicitly invokes
the max selection rule (see Bergemann and Morris 2019 for further discussion). Since (I, I) and (N, N) are both BNE in the absence of any additional
information, the max rule selects (I, I). Instead, under the min rule, (N, N)
will be selected, which results in the smallest possible payoff for the designer.
We use our approach to compute an optimal information structure and
show that, under adversarial selection, the designer can achieve a higher
expected payoff for m0 ∈ ½1=2, 2=3Þ by revealing some information privately
to one of the agents while leaving the other agent uninformed.
A.

Worst-Equilibrium Characterization

We begin with a characterization of the worst BNE for the designer. When
an agent believes that v 5 2 with probability larger than 2/3, investing is
uniquely optimal15 for him, irrespective of his belief about the other agent’s
action. Investing can also be uniquely optimal even when an agent’s belief
that v 5 2 is less than 2/3, if that agent believes that the other agent will
invest with large enough probability.
Using the concepts from section III, let rki be the set of hierarchies defined inductively as follows:


2
,
r1i 5 ti : b*i ðfv 5 2g  Tj jti Þ >
3


1 *
2
k
k21
*
:
ri 5 ti : bi ðfv 5 2g  Tj jti Þ 1 bi ðV  rj jti Þ >
3
3
If agent i’s hierarchy ti is in r1i , then he believes with probability greater
than 2/3 that v 5 2, and his unique optimal response is to play I. If ti ∈
r2i , then agent i assigns high enough probability either to v 5 2 or to
agent j playing I (because tj ∈ r1j ), so that I is again uniquely optimal.
By induction, the same conclusion holds for hierarchies in rki for any k ≥
1. Letting ri ≔ [k≥1 rki , the unique optimal action for an agent with belief
in ri is I. This implies that, in all BNEs, agent i’s equilibrium strategy
must choose I with certainty when his hierarchy is in ri.
15

Formally, uniquely rationalizable.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

Given a belief distribution t ∈ C, the worst equilibrium for our designer
is such that all agents play I only when their beliefs belong to ri (that is,
only when I is uniquely rationalizable) and play N otherwise: for all i
and ti,
(
1 if ti ∈ ri ,
MIN
ji ðIjti Þ 5
(14)
0 otherwise:
B. Solution
Following theorem 1 and corollary 1, we solve the information-design
problem in two steps: maximization within and maximization between.

1.

Maximization Within

We first characterize the state distributions for which the maximization
within induces joint investment (i.e., investment by both agents) with certainty in the worst equilibrium. For m > 2=3, each agent invests regardless
of the other’s decision. Therefore, it is optimal to provide no information.
For m < 2=3, instead, information can be used, at least in some cases, to induce joint investment with certainty by exploiting the equilibrium structure. In these cases, the designer induces some agent (say agent 1) to invest
at a type t1 only on the basis of his first-order belief being greater than 2/3,
that is, t1 ∈ r11 . Leveraging the presence of t1, the designer can induce a type
t 2 of agent 2 to invest, with a first-order belief lower than 2/3. This type finds
investing uniquely optimal because of the sufficiently high probability it
assigns to t1, that is, t 2 ∈ r22 . This allows for a type t10 of agent 1 to invest,
with even lower first-order beliefs, on the basis of the probability it assigns to t 2, that is, t10 ∈ r31 . This chain of reasoning continues for as many
messages as the designer sends, each message corresponding to a different hierarchy.
We combine this insight with the conditions of proposition 2 to obtain
a system of inequalities and one equation ([B1]–[B4] in sec. B2), which
characterizes the minimal distributions that induce joint investment
with certainty at m. Simple addition of the inequalities shows that m must
be greater than 1/2, as stated in the following result.
Claim 1. Joint investment with certainty can be achieved if and only
if m > 1=2.
In the maximization within, revealing no information for m ∈ ð1=2, 2=3Þ
yields no investment in the worst equilibrium. Therefore, the designer has
to reveal some (private) information to induce joint investment with certainty for this range of m. In fact, for all m ∈ ð1=2, 2=3Þ this can be achieved
with the simple minimal distributions presented in table 3, where ε is a

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

TABLE 3
Optimal Minimal Distributions for m ∈ (1/2, 2/3)
t 2 : m2 5 m

em*
t1: m1 5 2/3 1 ε
t10 : m01 5 1=3 1 ε

3(m 2 ε) 2 1
2 2 3(m 2 ε)

small positive number. From claim 1 it follows that the designer can no longer generate joint investment with certainty for m ≤ 1=2. But can she still
generate enough investment that her value from the maximization within
is relevant for the concavification stage? As we show in the next section, for
many monotone designers the answer is no; hence, maximization within
for m ≤ 1=2 can be dispensed with.
2.

Maximization Between

Assuming that the designer does not maximize within for m < 1=2, we obtain a value function w
~ * ðmÞ equal to v(I, I) if m > 1=2 and zero otherwise.
This function is plotted (dashed lines) in figure 1 for a designer with
vðI, IÞ 5 2 and vðN, IÞ 5 vðI, NÞ 5 1. The concave envelope of w
~ *,
(
ðcavw
~ * ÞðmÞ 5

vðI, IÞ

if m > 1=2,

2mvðI, IÞ if m ≤ 1=2,

is also depicted (solid line) in figure 1. Our next result states that this concave envelope represents the optimal solution. We prove that the value of
maximization within for m ≤ 1=2 cannot be relevant for the concavification,

F IG . 1.—Optimal value. A color version of this figure is available online.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

and therefore its computation within this range can be omitted without loss of
generality.
Claim 2. ðcavw
~ * Þðm0 Þ is the designer’s optimal expected value at m0.
The optimal belief-hierarchy distribution is as follows: (i) for m0 > 2=3,
reveal no information; (ii) for m0 ∈ ð1=2, 2=3, use em* with probability 1;
*
with
and (iii) for m0 ≤ 1=2, use a public signal that either draws e1=21ε
probability 2m0 =ð1 1 2εÞ or makes it common knowledge that v 5 21
with the remaining probability.16 The corresponding optimal information structure for m0 ≤ 1=2 is presented in table 4.
C. Extension
When the designer values unilateral investment enough that claim 2 no
longer holds, maximization within may become relevant for m ≤ 1=2, because its value may dominate ðcavw
~ * ÞðmÞ. For such designers and state
distributions, the optimal minimal distribution will necessarily put mass
on at least one hierarchy at which N is also rationalizable and will thus be
played in the worst equilibrium. For these hierarchies, lemma 5 in section B1 establishes that it is optimal to set the first-order beliefs to zero,
because, for a fixed m, this allows the designer to put more weight on other
hierarchies that do invest. Therefore, an optimal minimal distribution
can be found by solving our system (eqq. [B1]–[B4]), with as few firstorder beliefs equal to zero as possible to find a solution at each m.17
D. Discussion
Private information plays a central role in the optimal design of robust
incentives under adversarial selection. In our application, private information fosters robust investment by making agents uncertain about each
other’s beliefs about the state while, at the same time, making them certain about each other’s behavior. By giving some information to one of
the agents while leaving the other one uninformed, the designer makes
the latter uncertain about the beliefs of the former in a way that induces
joint investment with certainty. It is sufficient for the uninformed agent
to believe with high enough probability that investing is dominant for
16
Under adversarial selection, an optimal solution may not exist for all m0 (for instance,
at m0 5 1=2 in our example). However, the supremum of theorem 1 can always be ap~ * Þðm0 Þ gives the exact
proached with arbitrary precision for all m0. In our example, ðcavw
~ ε* , equal
value of the supremum for all m0. It is obtained by concavifying the function w
to 0 for all m < ð1=2Þ 1 ε and equal to 2 otherwise, and taking the pointwise limit as
ε ↓ 0. The function w
~ ε* corresponds to using em* from table 3 (which depends on ε) for
m ≥ ð1=2Þ 1 ε and giving no information for lower m.
17
We do not need to compute the maximization within in our example for m < 1=2, because of claim 2. However, we used our system to compute its value for R 5 L 5 2 (i.e.,
two messages per player) and have plotted the result (the dotted line) in fig. 1 for completeness.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

TABLE 4
Optimal Information Structure for m0 ≤ 1/2

p* (⋅ F v 5 21):
s, s10
s, s100
q
p* (⋅ F v 5 2):
s, s10
s, s100
q

s

q

m0 1=32ε
12m0 112ε
m0 2=32ε
12m0 112ε

0
0

0

2=31ε
112ε
1=31ε
112ε

0

122m0 12ε
ð12m0 Þð112εÞ

0
0
0

the other agent, in order to make investment uniquely optimal for him as
well. In contrast, it is public information that plays the central role under
favorable equilibrium selection. Note that public information can also provide robust incentives to invest under adversarial selection, but only if it
makes both agents extremely optimistic (with first-order beliefs greater
than 2/3). This use of information, however, is suboptimal, because joint
investment can be achieved through private information, even when
agents are not as optimistic. How this is possible is explained next.
Optimal information disclosure under adversarial selection brings out
two important principles underpinning the role of private information:
the bandwagon effect and extreme pessimism. The bandwagon effect is
the force that provides robust incentives to invest without relying on
agents’ (mutual) extreme optimism about the state. There need be only
one type of one agent (agent 1 of type t1) with first-order beliefs about the
state high enough to make investment strictly dominant at that type.
Then, investing becomes uniquely optimal for the other agent (agent 2
of type t2) under a more pessimistic belief about the state, if he puts sufficiently high probability on agent 1 being extremely optimistic (i.e., on
agent 1 being of type t1). In turn, investing becomes uniquely optimal for
the second type of agent 1 (type t10 ), with an even lower first-order belief,
because he is certain that player 2 will always invest. This contagion process trades off pessimism about the state for optimism about the other
agent’s investment by taking advantage of the two kinds of payoff complementarities. This trade-off can be exploited only by informative private
signals.
Just as investment should be induced efficiently, so should be noninvestment. In our application, the designer causes an extreme form of
pessimism, according to which an agent is certain that the state is bad
whenever he chooses not to invest. If, instead, the designer were to induce a moderate belief about the state, at which both actions could be
optimal, depending on coordination, then not investing would be played
in the worst equilibrium. Therefore, the designer should make him as

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

pessimistic as possible, since this does not change his behavior in the
worst equilibrium while allowing the designer to increase the probability
of robust investment. This step also takes advantage of the complementarities: extremely pessimistic beliefs incentivize noninvestment because
the complementarities between an agent’s action and the state overpower
the strategic complementarities. This allows the designer to put more probability on higher beliefs at which the bandwagon effect induces robust investment. Extreme pessimism also emerges in the solution to the singleagent problem of Kamenica and Gentzkow (2011), in which the agent is
certain about the state when taking the undesirable (to the designer) action. As in our application, this in turn allows the designer to induce the
desirable action with maximal probability, subject to Bayes plausibility.
VI. Conclusion
This paper contributes to the foundations of information design with multiple interacting agents. Our representation results formulate the beliefbased approach to the problem and decompose it into maximizations
within and between, where the latter is concavification. This approach accommodates various equilibrium-selection rules and solution concepts,
which can be used to analyze diverse topics, such as robustness, bounded
rationality, collusion, and communication. We provide an economic application based on a two-agent investment game and apply our approach to
solve the information-design problem under adversarial equilibrium selection. An obvious avenue for future research is to generalize this robust information design to a class of games with strategic complementarities, for
which our results from the investment game provide the fundamental logic.
Examining the implications of heterogenous prior distributions among
the agents is another interesting extension of the current framework.

Appendix A
Proofs of Main Results
A1.

Proof of Proposition 1

Let t be induced by some (S, p), so that
tðtÞ 5 opðfs : hðsÞ 5 tgjvÞm0 ðvÞ

(A1)

v

for all t ∈ supp t. Define p ∈ DðV  T Þ as
pðv, tÞ 5 pðfs : hðsÞ 5 tgjvÞm0 ðvÞ

(A2)

for all v and t ∈ supp t. It is immediate from equations (A1) and (A2) that
margT p 5 t and so margT p 5 ti for all i. Further, when any agent i forms his
i

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

beliefs under (S, p), he computes mi : Si → DðV  S2i Þ by conditioning pðsjvÞm0 ðvÞ
on si, so that b*i : Ti → DðV  T2i Þ is given by the conditional of p, given ti. That is,
pðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti ÞmargT pðti Þ
i

for all i, v, and t ∈ supp t. This shows that t ∈ C. Finally,

o b* ðvjt Þt ðt Þ ≔ o pðv, tÞ 5 opðfs : hðsÞ 5 tgjvÞm ðvÞ 5 m ðvÞ
i

i

i

0

i

ti ∈supp ti

t∈supp t

0

t

for all v, which proves Bayes plausibility.
Suppose now that t ∈ C and satisfies Bayes plausibility. Let us show that these
conditions are sufficient for t to be induced by some (S, p). Define information
structure (supp t, pt), where
pt ðtjÞ : v ↦

1
b*i ðv, t2i jti Þti ðti Þ
m0 ðvÞ

(A3)

for all t ∈ supp t, which is defined independently of the choice of i because t ∈ C.
First, let us verify that pt is a valid information structure. Bayes plausibility says

o b* ðvjt Þt ðt Þ 5 m ðvÞ,
i

i

i

0

i

ti ∈supp ti

which guarantees that
1

o p ðtjvÞ 5 m ðvÞ o b* ðv, t jt Þt ðt Þ 5 1,
t

i

0

t∈supp t

2i

i

i

i

t∈supp t

(i.e., pðjvÞ is a probability distribution for every v). By construction, this information structure is such that, when any agent j receives tj, his beliefs are mj ðjtj Þ 5
b*j ðjtj Þ, also because t ∈ C. To prove that pt generates t, we also need to check that
tðtÞ 5 opt ðtjvÞm0 ðvÞ

(A4)

v

for all t ∈ supp t. By (A3), the right-hand side of equation (A4) is equal to
b*i ðt2i jti Þti ðti Þ, which equals t(t) because t ∈ C (in particular, because margV p 5
t). QED
A2.

Proof of Proposition 2

Suppose t is consistent and Bayes plausible. By definition, there exists a common
prior p ∈ DðV  T Þ such that, for all t, v, and i,
pðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þpðti Þ
and margT p 5 t. Moreover, by Bayes plausibility, margV p 5 m0 . Define nðvjtÞ ≔
pðvjtÞ for all t and v. We show that conditions (7)–(9) are satisfied. First,

o tðtÞnðvjtÞ 5 o pðtÞpðvjtÞ
t

t

5 ot pðtÞ

pðv, tÞ
pðtÞ

5 m0 ðvÞ:

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

Moreover, since p is a common prior, pðv, t2i jti Þ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þ and pðt2i jti Þ 5
b*i ðt2i jti Þ for all i, t, and v. Thus, for all i, t, and v,
nðvjti , t2i Þ ≔ pðvjti , t2i Þ 5

pðv, t2i jti Þ
5 b*i ðvjti , t2i Þ:
pðt2i jti Þ

Finally, since margT p 5 t and p is a common prior,
tðt2i jti Þ 5 pðt2i jti Þ 5 b*i ðt2i jti Þ
for all i and t.
Now, consider t ∈ Df ðT Þ and n : supp t → DV such that conditions (7)–(9)
hold. Define p ∈ DðV  T Þ as pðv, tÞ ≔ tðtÞnðvjtÞ for all v and t. We want to show
that p is a common prior for t. First, note that, by definition of p, pðtÞ 5
ov pðv, tÞ 5 tðtÞov nðvjtÞ 5 tðtÞ, for all t. Therefore, margT p 5 t. Second, for all
i, t, and v,
pðv, t2i jti Þ 5
5

pðv, tÞ
pðti Þ
tðtÞnðvjtÞ
tðti Þ

5 tðt2i jti ÞnðvjtÞ
5 b*i ðt2i jti Þb*i ðvjtÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þ:
The first equality comes from Bayes’s rule and the second equality comes from
the definition of p. In the fourth equality, we used conditions (8) and (9). Finally,
in the last equality, we used the definition of b*i ðvjti , t2i Þ. This implies that pðv, tÞ 5
b*i ðv, t2i jti Þpðti Þ for all v, t, and i. Therefore, p is a common prior for t or, equivalently, t ∈ C. Finally, t is Bayes plausible because, given condition (7),
pðvÞ 5 opðv, tÞ 5 otðtÞnðvjtÞ 5 m0 ðvÞ,
t

t

for all v. QED
A3.

Proof of Theorem 1

Lemma 1. C is convex.
Proof. Take a ∈ ½0, 1 and t0 , t00 ∈ C. By definition of C, there are p t and p t
such that margT pt 5 t0 and margT pt 5 t00 and
0

0

00

00

pt ðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þt0i ðti Þ,
0

pt ðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þt00i ðti Þ,

(A5)

00

for all v, i, and t. Define t ≔ at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 , and note that ti 5 at0i 1 ð1 2 aÞt00i ,
by the linearity of the Lebesgue integral. Define
pt ðv, tÞ ≔ b*i ðv, t2i jti Þti ðti Þ
for all i, v, and t ∈ supp t. Note that pt is well defined, because of equation (A5).
Thus,

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

margT pt 5 amargT pt 1 ð1 2 aÞmargT pt 5 at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 5 t,
0

00

and we conclude that t ∈ C. QED
Although C is convex, it is not closed because we can build sequences in C with
growing supports, converging to a belief-hierarchy distribution only with an infinite support. Still, the next lemma proves that minimal (consistent) distributions
are the extreme points of the set of consistent distributions.
Lemma 2. E 5 CM .
Proof. First, we show that CM ⊆ E. Take t ∈ CM . If t ∉ E, then there exist
t0 , t00 ∈ C with t0 ≠ t00 and a ∈ ð0, 1Þ such that t ≔ at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 . Since
t ∈ CM , t ∈ C. Moreover, supp t0 [ supp t00 ⊆ supp t. For l ∈ R1 , let tl ≔
t 1 lðt 2 t00 Þ, which is a linear combination between t 0 and t 00. Indeed, by construction t 2 t00 5 aðt0 2 t00 Þ, and therefore we can rewrite tl 5 að1 1 lÞt0 1
½1 2 að1 1 lÞt00 . Clearly, ot∈suppt tl ðtÞ 5 1 for all l ∈ R1 . Define L ≔ fl ≥
0 : 8 t ∈ supp t, 0 ≤ tl ðtÞ ≤ 1g so that, by construction, tl ∈ C for all l ∈ L.
Next, we establish a number of simple properties of L. The set L is nonempty, since
both l 5 0 and l 5 ð1 2 aÞ=a belong to it, which can be verified by substitution.
Moreover, it is easy to check that L is convex. The set L is closed. To see this, it is
enough to consider any increasing sequence ðlm Þ ⊂ L∞ such that lm ↗ l. We want
to show that l ∈ L. For all t ∈ suppt, by definition of t, the sequence tl ðtÞ is monotone (either nondecreasing or nonincreasing), and, by definition of L, it lives in the
compact interval [0, 1]. Therefore, it converges in limm tl ðtÞ ∈ ½0, 1. Hence, l ∈ L.
~ where l
~ ≔ max L ≥ ð1 2 aÞ=a > 0.
Therefore, we can write L 5 ½0, l,
We want to show that supp tl~ ⊊ supp t. To see this, let ~t ∈ supp t ~l , and suppose
that t~ ∉ supp t. Then, by definition, tl~ ðt~Þ 5 2~
lt00 ðt~Þ ≤ 0, which is impossible.
Moreover, there must exist t ∈ supp t such that tl~ ðtÞ 5 0. To see this, suppose
not; that is, suppose that suppt 5 supptl~ . Then, for all t ∈ supp t, we would
have that tl~ ðtÞ > 0. Since t ~l ∈ C by construction, and since jsupp tj > 1 (otherwise
t0 5 t00 ), we also have that tl~ ðtÞ < 1 for all t ∈ supp t. Let T 2 ≔ ft ∈
supp t : tðtÞ 2 t00 ðtÞ < 0g and T 1 ≔ ft ∈ supp t : tðtÞ 2 t00 ðtÞ > 0g. These sets
are nonempty by assumption (t0 ≠ t00 ). For t ∈ T 2 , let lðtÞ ≔ 2tðtÞ=ðtðtÞ2
t00 ðtÞÞ, and note that 0 5 tðtÞ 1 lðtÞðtðtÞ 2 t00 ðtÞÞ < t ~l ðtÞ, implying that
lðtÞ > ~
l. Similarly, for t ∈ T 1 , let lðtÞ ≔ ð1 2 tðtÞÞ=ðtðtÞ 2 t00 ðtÞÞ, and note that
~ Now define l0 ≔
1 5 tðtÞ 1 lðtÞðtðtÞ 2 t00 ðtÞÞ > t ~l ðtÞ, implying that lðtÞ > l.
1
2
1
minflðtÞ :t ∈ T [ T g, which is well defined, since T [ T 2 is finite. By con~ a contradiction to the fact that l
~ is the maximum.
struction, tl ∈ C and l0 > l,
Therefore, we conclude that supp tl~ ⊊ supp t and thus that t ∉ CM .
We now show the converse, CM ⊇ E. Suppose that t ∈ C is not minimal, that is,
that there is a t~ ∈ C such that supp~t ⊊ suppt. Define t0 , t00 ∈ DT as t0 ðÞ ≔
tðjsupp~tÞ and t00 ðÞ ≔ tðjsupp t ∖ supp~tÞ, the conditional distributions of t on
supp~t and supp t ∖ supp~t, respectively. Clearly,
m

m

0

t 5 at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 ,

(A6)

where a 5 tðsupp~tÞ ∈ ð0, 1Þ. Since supp~t is belief closed, so is supp t ∖ supp~t. To
see why, note that for any t ∈ supp t ∖ supp~t, if there were i, t~ ∈ supp~t, and v ∈ V
such that pt ðv, t~2i jti Þ > 0, then this would imply pt ðv, ti , t~2i Þ > 0 and, thus,
pt ðv, ti , ~t2ðijÞ j~tj Þ > 0 (where ~t2ðijÞ are the hierarchy profiles for agents other than i

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

and j). This implies that at t~j —a hierarchy that agent j can have in t~—agent j assigns strictly positive probability to a hierarchy of agent 1 that is not in supp~t. This
contradicts the fact that supp~t is belief closed. Since t 0 and t 00 are derived from a
consistent t and are supported on a belief-closed subspace, t 0 and t 00 are consistent. Given that t00 ≠ t0 , equation (A6) implies that t is not an extreme point. QED
Proposition 3. For any t ∈ C, there exist unique fe‘ gL‘51 ⊆ CM and weakly positive numbers fa‘ gL‘51 such that oL‘51 a‘ 5 1 and t 5 oL‘51 a‘ e‘ .
Proof. Take any t ∈ C. Either t is minimal, in which case we are done, or it is
not, in which case there is t0 ∈ C such that suppt0 ⊊ supp t. Similarly, either t0 is
minimal, in which case we conclude that there exists a minimal e 1 ≔ t0 such that
suppe 1 ⊊ supp t, or there is t00 ∈ C such that suppt00 ⊊ supp t0 . Given that t has finite support, finitely many steps of this procedure deliver a minimal consistent
belief-hierarchy distribution e 1, suppe 1 ⊊ supp t. Since t and e1 are both consistent,
and hence their supports are belief closed, suppt ∖ suppe 1 must be belief closed.
Given that supp t ∖ suppe 1 is a belief-closed subset of supp t and t is consistent, define a new distribution t as
pt ðv, tÞ
tðsupp t ∖ suppe 1 Þ

pt ðv, tÞ ≔
2

for all v ∈ V and t ∈ supp t ∖ suppe 1 . By construction, suppt2 5 supp t ∖ suppe 1 .
Moreover, since t ∈ C, pt ðv, tÞ 5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þtðti Þ for all v ∈ V, t ∈ supp t, and i.
Hence,
pt ðv, tÞ 5
2

pt ðv, tÞ
b*i ðv, t2i jti Þtðti Þ
5 b*i ðv, t2i jti Þt2 ðti Þ
2 5
tðsupp t Þ
tðsupp t2 Þ

for all v ∈ V, t ∈ suppt2 , and i. In addition,
margT pt ðv, tÞ 5
2

margT pt ðv, tÞ
tðtÞ
5
5 t2 ðtÞ
tðsupp t2 Þ
tðsupp t2 Þ

for all v ∈ V and t ∈ suppt2 . Hence, t2 ∈ C. Therefore, we can repeat the procedure for distribution t2 ∈ C. Since t has finite support, there exists L ∈ N such
that, after L steps of this procedure, we obtain a consistent belief-hierarchy distribution tL that is also minimal. We denote e L ≔ tL , and our procedure terminates.
By construction, we have that for each t ∈ supp t there exists a unique ‘ ∈
f1, ::: , Lg such that t 5 e ‘ tðsuppe ‘ Þ. Therefore, t 5 oL‘51 a‘ e ‘ , where a‘ ≔
tðsuppe ‘ Þ > 0 and oL‘51 a‘ 5 oL‘51 tðsuppe ‘ Þ 5 1.
Finally, we prove uniqueness. By way of contradiction, suppose that t admits
two minimal representations, that is,
t 5 oa‘ e ‘ 5 oyk e^k
‘

k

such that e ≠ e^ for some ‘, k. This implies that for some t ∈ suppt and some ‘, k,
it holds that t ∈ suppe ‘ \ supp^e k , with e ‘ ≠ e^k . Two cases are possible:
‘

k

i. supp e ‘ ≠ supp e^k Since e ‘ , e^k ∈ C, suppe ‘ and supp e^k are belief closed,
which in turn implies that T ‘,k ≔ suppe ‘ \ supp^e k (nonempty by assumption)

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

is also belief closed. Therefore, there exists a distribution e
T ‘,k and described by
pe ðv, tÞ ≔
‘,k

‘,k

supported on

pt ðv, tÞ
tðT ‘,k Þ

for all v ∈ V and t ∈ T ‘,k , which is consistent, and suppe ‘,k ⊊ suppe ‘ . This
contradicts the minimality of e ‘.
ii. supp e ‘ 5 supp e^k Since e ‘ , e^k ∈ C, there exist common priors p and p^ in
DðV  T Þ such that margT p 5 e‘ and margT p^ 5 e^k . Thus, suppmargT p 5
suppmargT p^. This implies that suppp 5 suppp^ (if not, without loss there
would exist some i, ~t ∈ suppmargT p, and ~v ∈ V, such that bi ð~v, ~t2i j~ti Þ > 0,
while for all i and t ∈ suppmargT p^, bi ð~v, t2i jti Þ 5 0. This would contradict
suppmargT p 5 suppmargT p^). By propositions 4.4 and 4.5 in Mertens and
Zamir (1985), there can be only one common prior with a given finite support
in DðV  T Þ, hence p 5 p^. In turn, e ‘ 5 e^k , which contradicts that e ‘ ≠ e^k .
QED
Now, we prove linearity of w. The point is to show that the set of outcomes of
a mixture of subspaces of the universal type space can be written as a similar mixture of the sets of outcomes of these respective subspaces.
For any t0 , t00 ∈ C, let
aOL ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞOL ðt00 Þ ≔ fag0 1 ð1 2 aÞg00 : g0 ∈ OL ðt0 Þ and g00 ∈ OL ðt00 Þg:
0

00

0

00

(A7)
Proposition 4. If Σ is invariant, then for all t , t ∈ C and t 5 at 1 ð1 2 aÞt00
with a ∈ ½0, 1 and for all L ∈ ΣB ðtÞ, there are L0 ∈ ΣB ðt0 Þ and L00 ∈ ΣB ðt00 Þ such
that
0

B

00

0

OL ðtÞ 5 aOL ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞOL ðt00 Þ:
0

(A8)

00

Proof. Take any t0 , t00 ∈ C and a ∈ ½0, 1, and let t 5 at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 . Take any
L ∈ ΣB ðtÞ and j ∈ L. Define
gj ða, vÞ ≔

o jðajtÞp ðt, vÞ

8 ða, vÞ,

t

(A9)

t∈suppt

so that OL ðtÞ 5 fgj : j ∈ Lg. It follows from invariance that L0 ≔ fjjsuppt : j ∈ Lg is
in ΣB ðt0 Þ and that L00 ≔ fjjsupp t : j ∈ Lg is in ΣB ðt00 Þ. Moreover, note that


 
jjsupp t \suppt : j ∈ L 5 j0 jsuppt \suppt : j0 ∈ L0


5 j00 jsuppt \suppt : j00 ∈ L00 :
0

00

0

00

0

00

0

00

Now define
g0j ða, vÞ ≔

o jj

suppt0

ðajt Þpt ðv, t Þ
0

8 ða, vÞ,

suppt00

ðajt Þpt ðv, t Þ

8 ða, vÞ,

t∈supp t0

g00j ða, vÞ ≔

o jj

00

t∈supp t00

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

so that OL ðt Þ 5 fg : j ∈ Lg and OL ðt Þ 5 fg00j : j ∈ Lg. Since pt 5 ap t 1 ð1 2
aÞp t , (A9) implies that for all j ∈ L, a, and v,
0

0

0
j

00

00

0

00

o jðajt Þðap ðv, t Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞp ðv, t ÞÞ

gða, vÞ 5

t0

t00

t∈suppt

5 a o jjsuppt ðajt Þpt ðv, t Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞ o jjsuppt ðajt Þpt ðv, t Þ
0

0

00

t∈suppt0

00

t∈suppt00

5 ag0 ða, vÞ 1 ð1 2 aÞg00 ða, vÞ:
Hence, OL ðtÞ 5 aOL ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞOL ðt00 Þ: QED
Lemma 3. The function w is linear over C.
Proof. Take any t0 , t00 ∈ C and a ∈ ½0, 1, and let t 5 at0 1 ð1 2 aÞt00 . By proposition 4, we know that for all sequences (Ln) in ΣB(t), there exist sequences ðL0n Þ
in ΣB(t0) and ðL00n Þ in ΣB(t00) such that
0

00

OL ðtÞ 5 aOL ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞOL ðt00 Þ
0
n

n

8 n:

00
n

Since g is linear,

og ðO ðtÞÞða, vÞvða, vÞ 5 og ðaO ðt Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞO ðt ÞÞða, vÞvða, vÞ
L0n

Ln

v,a

0

00

L00n

v,a

5 aog ðOL ðt0 ÞÞvða, vÞ1 ð12aÞog ðOL ðt00 ÞÞðv, aÞvða, vÞ:
0
n

00
n

v,a

v,a

(A10)
 n Þ in ΣB(t) such that wðtÞ 5 limx → ∞ ov,a g ðOL ðtÞÞða, vÞvða, vÞ, ð 
Choose ðL
L0n Þ in
00
B
0
0
0
B
00
Σ (t ) such that wðt Þ 5 limx → ∞ ov,a g ðOL ðt ÞÞða, vÞvða, vÞ, and ð 
Ln Þ in Σ (t ) such
that wðt00 Þ 5 limx → ∞ ov,a g ðO L ðt00 ÞÞða, vÞvða, vÞ. By equation (A10), it must be that
n

0
n

00
n

w ðtÞ 5 lim og ðOL ðtÞÞða, vÞv ða, vÞ
n→∞

n

v,a

≤ alim og ðOL ðt0 ÞÞv ða, vÞ 1 ð1 2 aÞlim og ðO L ðt00 ÞÞða, vÞv ða, vÞ
n→∞

0
n

n→∞

v,a

00
n

v,a

5 aw ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞw ðt00 Þ:
Next, choose ðL0n Þ in ΣB(t 0) and ðL00n Þ in ΣB(t00) such that
aw ðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞw ðt00 Þ 5 alim og ðOL ðt0 ÞÞvða, vÞ
n→∞

0
n

v,a

1 ð1 2 aÞlim og ðOL ðt00 ÞÞðv, aÞvða, vÞ
n→∞

(A11)

00
n

v,a

and such that
 0
 

j jsuppt \suppt : j0 ∈ L0n 5 j00 jsuppt \suppt : j00 ∈ L00n ≕ L000n :
0

00

0

00

Note that the above restriction to sequences describing the same behavior
over suppt0 \ suppt00 is without loss, because a maximizing designer must be

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

indifferent between their selected outcomes. Therefore, the right-hand side of
equation (A11) can be written as
a lim og ðOL~ ð~t0 ÞÞvða, vÞ 1 ð1 2 aÞlim og ðOL~ ð~t00 ÞÞðv, aÞvða, vÞ
n→∞

0
n

n→∞

v,a

00
n

v,a

1 lim og ðOL ðt000 ÞÞðv, aÞvða, vÞ
n→∞

(A12)

000
n

v,a

~ 00n Þ in ΣB ð~t00 Þ, and ðL000n Þ in ΣB ðt000 Þ, where t~0 is
~ 0n Þ in ΣB ð~t0 Þ, ðL
for some sequences ðL
the consistent distribution with support suppt0 ∖ suppt00 , t~00 is the consistent distribution with support suppt00 ∖ suppt0 , and t000 is the consistent distribution with
support suppt00 \ suppt0 . By applying invariance (twice),


~
L0n , jjsupp~t ∈ ~
L00n and jjsuppt ∈ L000n
Ln ≔ j : suppt → DAjjjsupp~t ∈ ~
00

0

000

must be in ΣB(t), which, together with linearity of g, ensures that equation (A12)
is equal to
lim og ðO ~L ðtÞÞv ða, vÞ 5 w ðtÞ:

n→∞

n

v,a

Hence, we obtain wðtÞ 5 awðt0 Þ 1 ð1 2 aÞwðt00 Þ. QED
Proof of theorem 1.—Fix a prior m0 ∈ DðVÞ, and take any information structure (S,
p). From proposition 1, it follows that (S, p) induces a consistent belief-hierarchy
distribution t ∈ C such that margV pt 5 m0 . By definition of ΣB and w, we have
V ðS, pÞ ≤ wðtÞ and, thus, supðS,pÞ V ðS, pÞ ≤ supfwðtÞjt ∈ C and margV pt 5 m0 g.
Moreover, proposition 1 also implies that, for t ∈ C such that margV pt 5 m0 , there
exists an information structure (S, p) that induces t and such that V ðS, pÞ 5 wðtÞ.
Therefore, supðS,pÞ V ðS, pÞ ≥ supfwðtÞjt ∈ C and margV pt 5 m0 g. We conclude
that
supV ðS, pÞ 5
ðS,pÞ

sup

(A13)

wðtÞ:

t ∈ C
margV pt 5 m0

By proposition 3, there exists a unique l ∈ Df ðCM Þ such that t 5 oe∈suppl lðeÞe.
Since p and marg are linear,
margV pt 5 margV p lðeÞe 5
o
e

o lðeÞmarg p :
V e

e∈suppl

Then, by lemma 3 and equation (A13), we have
supV ðS, pÞ 5 sup owðeÞlðeÞ
ðS,pÞ

l∈Df ðCM Þ e

subject to o margV pe lðeÞ 5 m0 ,

(A14)

e

which concludes the proof. QED

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

Appendix B
Appendix of the Application
B1.

Bandwagon Effect and Extreme Pessimism

We first show that, given the structure of the worst equilibrium, in any optimal
distribution with m hierarchies in total, an agent invests at hierarchy ti in the
worst equilibrium if and only if ti rationalizes I uniquely on the basis of beliefs
of order m or lower.
Lemma 4 (Bandwagon effect). Suppose that t* is an optimal belief-hierarchy
distribution. Let m 5 oi51,2 jsuppt*i j. Then, for all i and ti ∈ suppt*i , jMIN
ðIjti Þ 5 1
i
if and only if ti ∈ [mk51 rki .
Proof. The “if ” part follows from equation (14) and [mk51 rki ⊆ [k≥1 rki . The “only
if ” part we prove by contradiction. Suppose that t^i ∈ suppt*i and jMIN
ðIjt^i Þ 5 1,
i
but t^i ∉ [mk51 rki . Then, by equation (14) it must be that t^i ∈ [k≥m11 rki . Note that
rki ⊆ rk11
for all k ≥ 1. Thus, for any ti ∈ ri , there exists a number k * ðti Þ ∈ N 1
i
k * ðt Þ
k * ðt Þ21
such that ti ∈ ri
and ti ∉ ri
, where r0i 5 ∅. That is, k*(ti) is the smallest
k
k such that ti ∈ ri . Let n ≥ 1 be such that k * ðt^i Þ 5 m 1 n. That is, t^i ∈ rm1n
,
i
and by definition
i

i

1
2
b*i ðfv 5 2g  Tj j^ti Þ 1 b*i ðV  rm1n21
j^ti Þ > ,
j
3
3
while t^i ∉ rm1n21
, and thus
i
1
2
j^ti Þ ≤ :
b*i ðfv 5 2g  Tj j^ti Þ 1 b*i ðV  rm1n22
j
3
3
This implies that b*i ðV  rm1n21
jt^i Þ > b*i ðV  rm1n22
jt^i Þ, hence rm1n22
⊊ rm1n21
.
j
j
j
j
m1n22
m1n21
*
~
~
~
Therefore, there exists tj ∈ rj
such that tj ∉ rj
, hence k ðtj Þ 5 m 1 n 2 1.
By the same argument, there exists t~i such that k * ðt~i Þ 5 m 1 n 2 2, and so on.
This process continues for m 1 n 2 1 steps in total; that is, there must be tj such
that k * ðtj Þ 5 1 if m 1 n is even or ti such that k * ðti Þ 5 1 if m 1 n is odd. Hence,
there must be at least m 1 n different hierarchies, which contradicts m 5
oi51,2 jsuppt*i j. QED
An implication of lemma 4 is that there is an optimal t* such that for every
k 5 2, :: : :, m it holds that either suppt*i \ rki 5 ∅ for i 5 1, 2 or suppt*i \
rki 5 tik , suppt*i \ rk21
5 ∅, and suppt*j \ rk21
5 tjk21 for j ≠ i, i 5 1, 2. Next,
i
j
we show that it is never optimal to induce a belief hierarchy at which an agent
has multiple rationalizable actions. In particular, the hierarchies that rationalize
action N are optimally set to have first-order beliefs of zero, that is, extreme
pessimism.
Lemma 5 (Extreme pessimism). If t* is an optimal belief-hierarchy distribution and if there is a BNE j such that ji ðN jti Þ > 0 for some i and ti ∈ suppt*i , then
b*i ðv 5 2jti Þ 5 0.
Proof. Consider a consistent and Bayes-plausible optimal minimal distribution t centered at m > 0. First, we argue that, since t is optimal, it must be that
for both i there exists ti ∈ suppti such that ti ∈ ri . If not, t would be strictly dominated by t^ 5 x  tð2=3Þ1ε 1 ð1 2 xÞ  t0 with x 5 minfm=½ð2=3Þ 1 ε, 1g, where tm is
m for all i is common knowledge.
a hierarchy profile at which b*i ðv 5 2jti Þ 5 
Indeed, the designer’s expected payoff under t^ in the worst equilibrium is

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

x  vðI, IÞ 1 ð1 2 xÞ  vðN, NÞ. Instead, if for some i, ti ∉ ri for all ti ∈ suppti , the
designer’s expected payoff is bounded above by x  vðI, NÞ 1 ð1 2 xÞvðN, NÞ,
which is strictly smaller than the payoff under t^.
By way of contradiction, suppose that for some agent i we have ~ti ∈ suppti
such that t~i ∉ ri and b*i ðv 5 2jt~i Þ > 0. Therefore, in the worst equilibrium, agent
i will play N at t~i ; that is, jMIN
ðIjt~i Þ 5 0.
i
By lemma 4, we know that any investing ti is in [mk51 rki and there is a unique
tik ∈ ðrk1 [ rk2 Þ \ suppti . Consider the distribution p 0 obtained from pt by transferring all the probability mass ot pt ðt~i , tj , v 5 2Þ, as described below. This operation
changes the hierarchies in supp pt according to fi : suppmargT pt → suppmargT p 0
for all i.
j

i

i

A.
i. If suppti \ r1i ≠ ∅, then p 0 ðfi ðti1 Þ, fj ðtj Þ, v 5 2Þ 5 pt ðti1 , tj , v 5 2Þ 1
pt ðt~i , tj , v 5 2Þ for all tj.
ii. If suppti \ r1i 5 ∅ and m is even, then p 0 ðfi ðti2k Þ, fj ðtj2k21 Þ, v 52Þ 5
pt ðti2k , tj2k21 , v 5 2Þ 1 pt ðt~i , tj2k21 , v 5 2Þ for all k 5 1, ::: , m=2.
iii. If suppti \ r1i 5 ∅ and m is odd, then p 0 ðfi ðti2k Þ, fj ðtj2k21 Þ,v 5 2Þ 5
pt ðti2k , tj2k21 , v 5 2Þ 1 pt ðt~i , tj2k21 , v 5 2Þ for all k 5 1, ::: , ðm 1 1Þ=2,
where tim11 is a new hierarchy with p 0 ðtim11 , fj ðtj Þ, v 5 21Þ 5 0 for all tj.
B. p 0 ðfi ð~ti Þ, fj ðtj Þ, v 5 2Þ 5 0 for all tj, and
C. p 0 ðfi ðti Þ, fj ðtj Þ, vÞ 5 pt ðti , tj , vÞ otherwise.
Now, consider the belief-hierarchy distribution t0 induced by p0. By construction of p 0, conditions A–C ensure that the beliefs of all (relevant) orders have
weakly increased for both agents in all hierarchies, except for t~i . Therefore, if
agent i with hierarchy ti ∈ Ti ∖ft~i g has uniquely rationalizable action I, and hence
plays I in any equilibrium under t, this also holds for agent i with hierarchy fi(ti)
under t 0. On the other hand, agent i with hierarchy t~i played N in the worst equilibrium under t, and this continues to hold for agent i with hierarchy fi ðt~i Þ under
t 0. Moreover, t 0 necessarily Bayes plausible (since it is induced by p 0). Finally, again
by construction of p 0, probability mass has been transferred only from noninvesting to investing types; hence, a designer with symmetric and monotone
payoffs must have a strictly higher expected payoff under t 0 than under t, a contradiction. QED
B2.

Characterization of the Optimal Minimal Distributions

The above lemmas imply that optimal design takes a special form in this example. First, if it is necessary to induce N, then by lemma 5 the designer should do it
by making the agent extremely pessimistic about the state. In this way, for a given
m, the designer can put higher probability on hierarchies that induce I. Second,
lemma 4 implies that optimal design incentivizes joint investment through contagion, which we call the “bandwagon effect.” To uniquely rationalize joint investment, on the basis of agents’ beliefs of bounded order, some hierarchy of an agent
must initiate investment by having first-order beliefs greater than 2/3. For any
given m, it is never optimal to put mass on more than one such “first-order investor”
hierarchy, because we can induce the other agent to invest at lower (than 2/3)
first-order beliefs, if he puts a sufficiently high probability on that first-order

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

investor. Likewise, it is optimal to have only one such “second-order investor,” as we
may induce the agent with the first-order investor hierarchy to now invest at a different hierarchy with even lower first-order beliefs, if he puts a sufficiently high
probability on that second-order investor hierarchy of his opponent. By proceeding in this way, we generate the lowest possible first-order beliefs overall and thus
generate joint investment with certainty at the lowest possible state distribution m.
When joint investment can no longer be sustained, and N has to be played with
positive probability, we set the first-order beliefs of the highest-order investor hierarchies to zero, by virtue of lemma 5.
For an arbitrary m < ∞, suppose the designer sends m messages in total in the
maximization within. Let us index each hierarchy of agent 1 by l 5 1, ::: , L and
each of agent 2 by r 5 1, ::: , R. By lemmas 4 and 5, the optimal minimal distributions will have either L 5 R 5 m=2 if m is even, or L 5 ðm 1 1Þ=2 and
R 5 ðm 2 1Þ=2 if m is odd.
Given a commonly known m ≔ Probðv 5 2Þ, denote an optimal minimal distribution em* by
em*

t 2,1

: ::

t 2,r

: ::

t 2,R

t1,1

A11

⋯

A1r

: ::

A1R

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

t1,l

Al1

⋯

Alr

: ::

AlR

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

⋮

t1,L

AL1

⋯

ALr

: ::

ALR

where all entries Alr are positive and ol,r Alr 5 1. Define Al1 ≔ or Alr and Ar2 ≔ ol Alr .
Let ml1 ≔ b*1 ðv 5 2jt1,l Þ and mr2 ≔ b*2 ðv 5 2jt 2,r Þ denote the agents’ first-order beliefs at the respective hierarchies.
For m > 2=3, the optimal minimal distribution is given by table B1, where
m1i 5 m for i 5 1, 2. The designer simply lets agents act under common knowledge of m, as investment is uniquely optimal in this range.
For m ≤ 2=3, the following system yields the optimal minimal distributions em*
such that all agents invest at all ti:

f

oA m
1r

r

A

1r

1
1

>

2
,
3

(B1)

o A m 1 1o A > 2

for r 5 1, ::: , R,

(B2)

o A m 1 1o

for l 5 2, ::: , L,

(B3)

lr

l

3

A

r

lr

Al1

r
l51
2
r

lr

2
r

lr

3

A

lr

3

l21
r 51
1
l

Alr

A

>

2
3

oA m 5 m:
lr

lr

(B4)

l,r

where mlr ≔ b* ðv 5 2jt1,l , t 2,r Þ denotes the designer’s belief that v 5 2, given the
profile of agents’ hierarchies (t1,l, t 2,r). We have used proposition 2 and
lemma 4 to construct this system (eqq. [B1]–[B4]). Indeed, we have incorporated

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

TABLE B1
Optimal Minimal Distributions for m ≥ 2/3
em*

t 2,1

t1,1

1

conditions (7)–(9) from proposition 2: all agents’ first-order beliefs should be a
tðt2i jti Þ-weighted average of the designer’s beliefs. For example, in condition (B1),
m11 ≔ or

A1r m1r
A11

represents agent 1’s (first-order) belief that v 5 2 at t1,1. Likewise, the first expressions on the left-hand side of conditions (B2) and (B3) represent first-order beliefs mr2 and ml1 , respectively. Condition (B4) captures condition (7) from proposition 2.
Inequalities (B1)–(B3) are the investment constraints inherited from the
equilibrium characterization in equation (14) and lemma 4. As discussed above,
some agent must have a hierarchy at which he is the first-order investor. Without
loss, choose t1,1 to play that role and require m11 > 2=3 (this is condition [B1]).
Choose t 2,1 to be the second-order investor, who invests on the basis of secondorder beliefs, that is, t 2,1 ∈ r22 . This is equivalent to m12 1 ð1=3Þb*2 ðt1,1 jt 2,1 Þ > 2=3,
where
m12 ≔ ol
b* ðt
2

Al1 ml1
,
A12

(B5)

A11
:
1,1 jt 2,1 Þ ≔
A12

This is precisely condition (B2) for r 5 1, where (B5) is agent 2’s second-order
belief that t1 ∈ r11 . Given that agent 2 invests on the basis of second-order beliefs
at t 2,1, agent 1 invests on the basis of third-order beliefs if t1,2 ∈ r31 , which is equivalent to condition (B3) for l 5 2, and so on. In conclusion, the system (B1)–
(B4) describes the most efficient way of inducing joint investment with probability 1. If the system has a solution, it must be em* .
Proof of Claim 1
Only if.—By way of contradiction, suppose that em* induces joint investment with
certainty at m ≤ 1=2. Then, em* must solve system (B1)–(B4). Adding up inequalities (B1) and (B3) for l 5 2, : : : , L, we obtain
2

1 L l 21

oA m > 3 oA 2 3 ooA ,
lr

1
l

lr

l,r

l

lr

l52r 51

which can be rewritten as
m>

2 1 L l21
2
oAlr ,
3 3o
l 52r 51

(B6)

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

using equation (B4). Adding up equations (B2) for r 5 1, : : : , R, we similarly obtain
m>

r
2 1
2 ooAlr :
3 3 r l51

(B7)

r
R L
Note that oLl52 ol21
r 51 Alr 1 or ol51 Alr 5 or ol Alr 5 1. Therefore, adding up equations (B6) and (B7), we get 2m > 2  ð2=3Þ 2 ð1=3Þ, which implies that m > 1=2.
If.—Suppose that m > 1=2. For m > 2=3, em* in table B1 induces joint investment
with certainty. For m ∈ ð1=2, 2=3Þ, it can be easily checked that em* in table 3 is a
solution to the system (B1)–(B4) with R 5 1 and L 5 2 and hence induces joint
investment with certainty. QED
From claim 1, we know that for m ≤ 1=2, the designer can no longer ensure
that I will be played at all hierarchies. By lemma 5, the hierarchies at which N
is played must have first-order beliefs of zero. To obtain the optimal minimal distributions for m ≤ 1=2, we set

mR2 ≔ ol

AlR mlR
50
AR2

(B8)

and replace condition (B2) for r 5 R with it. We then find the smallest m for
which the system has a solution and repeat this procedure by setting mL1 5 0
and replacing condition (B3) for l 5 L with it, and so on.
Proof of Claim 2

f

Consider the case when the last K types of agent 1 and the last K types of agent 2
do not invest.18 This means that the system becomes
2

oA m > 3 A ,
1r

1r

1
1

(B9)

r

2

1 r

oA m > 3 A 2 3 oA
lr

lr

2
r

lr

for r 5 1, ::: , R 2 K ,

(B10)

for l 5 2, ::: , L 2 K ,

(B11)

l51

l

2

1 l21

oA m > 3 A 2 3 o A
lr

lr

1
l

lr

r 51

r

oA m 5 0 for r 5 R 2 K 1 1, ::: , R,

(B12)

oA m 5 0 for l 5 L 2 K 1 1:::: , L,

(B13)

oA m 5 m,

(B14)

lr

lr

l

lr

lr

r

lr

lr

l,r

where the first-order beliefs of the last K noninvesting types of both agents have
been set equal to zero. Adding up each side of the conditions corresponding to
agent 1 ([B9], [B11], and [B13]) and using equation (B14), we get
18
Note that the only options are that the last K types of both agents do not invest or the
last K types of agent 1 and the last K 2 1 types of agent 2 do not invest.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games
m>

000

2 L2K 1 1 L2K l21
2 L2K R2K
2 L2K R
1 L2K l21
Al 2 o oAlr 5 o o Alr 1 o o Alr 2 o oAlr
3o
3
3
3
3 l52 r 51
l51
l52 r 51
l51 r 51
l51 r 5R2K 11

(B15)

and, correspondingly, for agent 2 (adding up each side of conditions [B10] and
[B12]),
m>

2 R 2K 2 1 R2K r
2 L2K R 2K
2 L R2K
1 R 2K r
Ar 2 o oAlr 5 o o Alr 1
Alr 2 o oAlr :
o
o
o
3 r 51
3 r 51 l51
3 l51 r 51
3 l 5L2K 11 r 51
3 r 51 l51

(B16)

Summing up the above two equations, we obtain
L2K R2K

2m > o o Alr 1
l 51 r 51

2 L2K R
2 L R 2K
Alr 1
Alr ,
o
o
o 11 ro
3 l51 r 5R 2K 11
3 l5L2K
51

(B17)

where we have used that
1 L2K l21
1 R2K r
1 L2K R 2K
Alr 1 o oAlr 5 o o Alr :
o
o
3 l52 r 51
3 r 51 l51
3 l51 r 51
Note that inequality (B17) can be written as
2
2
2m > Prðboth investÞ 1 Prðonly 1 investsÞ 1 Prðonly 2 investsÞ:
3
3

(B18)

Multiplying both sides by vðI, IÞ > 0, we obtain


2
2
2mvðI, IÞ > vðI, IÞ Prðboth investÞ 1 Prðonly 1 investsÞ 1 Prðonly 2 investsÞ :
3
3
(B19)
Note that the left-hand side of this inequality is ðcavw
~ * ÞðmÞ for m ≤ 1=2. Let us denote the right-hand side of (B19) by RHS(B19). The designer’s expected value at
any optimal em* ∈ CM with m messages can be written as
Ee * ½v  5 vðI, IÞ Prðboth investÞ 1 vðI, NÞ Prðonly 1 investsÞ
m

(B20)

1 vðN, IÞ Prðonly 2 investsÞ:
Then,

RHSðB19Þ 2 Ee * ½v 5
m


2
vðI, IÞ 2 vðN, IÞ Prðonly 1 investsÞ
3

2
1
vðI, IÞ 2 vðN, IÞ Prðonly 2 investsÞ:
3

(B21)

Hence, if ð2=3ÞvðI, IÞ 2 vðN, IÞ ≥ 0, then RHSðB19Þ ≥ Ee * ½v. This, in turn, implies
that
m

ðcavw
~ * ÞðmÞ > Ee * ½v
m

for m ≤ 1=2 and for any optimal em* ∈ CM . QED

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

000

journal of political economy

References
Alonso, Ricardo, and Odilon Câmara. 2016. “Persuading Voters.” A.E.R. 106 (11):
3590–605.
Angeletos, George-Marios, and Alessandro Pavan. 2007. “Efficient Use of Information and Social Value of Information.” Econometrica 75 (4): 1103–42.
Aumann, Robert J. 1976. “Agreeing to Disagree.” Ann. Statis. 4 (6): 1236–39.
Aumann, Robert J., and Michael B. Maschler. 1995. Repeated Games with Incomplete
Information. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Barelli, Paulo. 2009. “On the Genericity of Full Surplus Extraction in Mechanism
Design.” J. Econ. Theory 144 (3): 1320–32.
Bergemann, Dirk, Benjamin Brooks, and Stephen Morris. 2017. “First-Price Auctions with General Information Structures: Implications for Bidding and Revenue.” Econometrica 85 (1): 107–43.
Bergemann, Dirk, and Stephen Morris. 2016. “Bayes Correlated Equilibrium and the
Comparison of Information Structures in Games.” Theoretical Econ. 11:487–522.
———. 2019. “Information Design: A Unified Perspective.” J. Econ. Literature
57 (1): 44–95.
Best, James, and Daniel Quigley. 2018. “Persuasion for the Long-Run.” Working
paper, Oxford Univ.
Brandenburger, Adam, and Eddie Dekel. 1993. “Hierarchies of Beliefs and Common Knowledge.” J. Econ. Theory 59 (1): 189–98.
Brocas, Isabelle, and Juan D. Carrillo. 2007. “Influence through Ignorance.”
RAND J. Econ. 38 (4): 931–47.
Carlsson, Hans, and Eric van Damme. 1993. “Global Games and Equilibrium Selection.” Econometrica 61 (5): 989–1018.
Chan, Jimmy, Seher Gupta, Fei Li, and Yun Wang. 2019. “Pivotal Persuasion.”
J. Econ. Theory 180:178–202.
Dekel, Eddie, Drew Fudenberg, and Stephen Morris. 2007. “Interim Correlated
Rationalizability.” Theoretical Econ. 2:15–40.
Ely, Jeffrey. 2017. “Beeps.” A.E.R. 107 (1): 31–53.
Ely, Jeffrey, and Marcin Peski. 2006. “Hierarchies of Belief and Interim Rationalizability.” Theoretical Econ. 1 (1): 19–65.
Heifetz, Aviad, and Zvika Neeman. 2006. “On the Generic (Im)Possibility of Full
Surplus Extraction in Mechanism Design.” Econometrica 74 (1): 213–33.
Hoshino, Tetsuya. 2018. “Using Strategic Uncertainty to Persuade Multiple
Agents.” Working paper, Pennsylvania State Univ.
Inostroza, Nicolas, and Alessandro Pavan. 2017. “Persuasion in Global Games
with Application to Stress Testing.” Working Paper, Northwestern Univ.
Kajii, Atsushi, and Stephen Morris. 1997. “The Robustness of Equilibria to Incomplete Information.” Econometrica 65 (6): 1283–309.
Kamenica, Emir, and Matthew Gentzkow. 2011. “Bayesian Persuasion.” A.E.R.
101 (6): 2590–615.
Laclau, Marie, and Ludovic Renou. 2016. “Public Persuasion.” Working paper.
Liu, Qingmin. 2009. “On Redundant Types and Bayesian Formulation of Incomplete Information.” J. Econ. Theory 144 (5): 2115–45.
———. 2015. “Correlation and Common Priors in Games with Incomplete Information.” J. Econ. Theory 157:49–75.
Mathevet, Laurent, David Pearce, and Ennio Stacchetti. 2018. “Reputation and
Information Design.” Working paper, New York Univ.
Mertens, Jean-François, and Shmuel Zamir. 1985. “Formulation of Bayesian
Analysis for Games with Incomplete Information.” Internat. J. Game Theory
14 (1): 1–29.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

information design in games

000

Morris, Stephen, and Hyun Song Shin. 2002. “Social Value of Public Information.” A.E.R. 92 (5): 1521–34.
———. 2003. “Global Games: Theory and Applications.” In Advances in Economics
and Econometrics, the Eighth World Congress, edited by Mathias Dewatripont, Lars
Peter Hansen, and Stephen J. Turnovsky, 56–114. Cambridge: Cambridge
Univ. Press.
Rayo, Luis, and Ilya Segal. 2010. “Optimal Information Disclosure.” J.P.E. 118 (5):
949–87.
Rockafellar, R. Tyrrell. 1970. Convex Analysis. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
Univ. Press.
Rubinstein, Ariel. 1989. “The Electronic Mail Game: Strategic Behavior under
‘Almost Common Knowledge’.” A.E.R. 79 (3): 385–91.
Taneva, Ina. 2019. “Information Design.” American Econ. J.: Microeconomics 11 (4):
151–85.
Vives, Xavier. 1988. “Aggregation of Information in Large Cournot Markets.”
Econometrica 56 (4): 851–76.
Yildiz, Muhamet. 2015. “Invariance to Representation of Information.” Games
and Econ. Behavior 94:142–56.
Zhang, Jun, and Junjie Zhou. 2016. “Information Disclosure in Contests: A
Bayesian Persuasion Approach.” Econ. J. 126:2197–217.

This content downloaded from 129.215.019.157 on March 05, 2020 06:17:08 AM
All use subject to University of Chicago Press Terms and Conditions (http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c).

