arXiv:2312.00798v2 [cs.AI] 1 Jan 2024
                                        A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally
                                                   Similar to Humans?
                                        Qiaozhu Mei1*, Yutong Xie1 , Walter Yuan2 and Matthew O.
                                                               Jackson3,4*
                                                 1 School of Information, University of Michigan.
                                                                         2 MobLab.
                                                3 Department of Economics, Stanford University.
                                                       4 External Faculty, Santa Fe Institute.




                                            *Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): qmei@umich.edu;
                                                          jacksonm@stanford.edu;
                                                  Contributing authors: yutxie@umich.edu;
                                                         walter.yuan@moblab.com;


                                                                          Abstract
                                         We administer a Turing Test to AI Chatbots. We examine how Chatbots
                                         behave in a suite of classic behavioral games that are designed to elicit
                                         characteristics such as trust, fairness, risk-aversion, cooperation, etc., as
                                         well as how they respond to a traditional Big-5 psychological survey that
                                         measures personality traits. ChatGPT-4 exhibits behavioral and person-
                                         ality traits that are statistically indistinguishable from a random human
                                         from tens of thousands of human subjects from more than 50 countries.
                                         Chatbots also modify their behavior based on previous experience and
                                         contexts “as if” they were learning from the interactions, and change
                                         their behavior in response to different framings of the same strategic
                                         situation. Their behaviors are often distinct from average and modal
                                         human behaviors, in which case they tend to behave on the more altru-
                                         istic and cooperative end of the distribution. We estimate that they act
                                         as if they are maximizing an average of their own and partner’s payoffs.

                                         Keywords: AI, Chatbot, Large Language Models, Behavioral Games, Turing
                                         Test, Big-5 Personality

                                         JEL Classification: D9 , C91 , C88 , C72




                                                                              1
2     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

1 Introduction
As Alan Turing foresaw to be inevitable, modern artificial intelligence (AI)
has reached the point of emulating humans: holding conversations, providing
advice, writing poems, and proving theorems. Turing proposed an intriguing
test: whether an interrogator who interacts with an AI and a human can dis-
tinguish which one is artificial. Turing called this test the “imitation game”[1],
and it has become known as a Turing Test.
    Advancements in large language models have stirred debate. Discussions
range from the potential of AI bots to emulate, assist, or even outperform
humans (e.g., writing essays, taking the SAT, writing computer programs, giv-
ing economic advice, or developing ideas, [2–5]), to their potential impact on
labor markets [6] and broader societal implications [7, 8]. As some roles for AI
involve decision-making and strategic interactions with humans, it is imper-
ative to understand their behavioral tendencies before we entrust them with
pilot or co-pilot seats in societal contexts, especially as their development and
training are often complex and not transparent [9]. Do AIs choose similar
actions or strategies as humans, and if not how do they differ? Do they exhibit
distinctive personalities and behavioral traits that influence their decisions?
Are these strategies and traits consistent across varying contexts? A compre-
hensive understanding of AI’s behavior in generalizable scenarios is vital as we
continue to integrate them into our daily lives.
    We perform a Turing Test of the behavior of a series of AI chatbots. This
goes beyond simply asking whether AI can produce an essay that looks like
it was written by a human [10] or can answer a set of factual questions, and
instead involves assessing its behavioral tendencies and “personality.” In par-
ticular, we ask variations of ChatGPT to answer psychological survey questions
and play a suite of interactive games that have become standards in assess-
ing behavioral tendencies, and for which we have extensive human subject
data. Beyond eliciting a “Big Five” personality profile, we have the chatbots
play a variety of games that elicit different traits: a dictator game, an ultima-
tum bargaining game, a trust game, a bomb risk game, a public goods game,
and a finitely repeated Prisoner’s Dilemma game. Each game is designed to
reveal different behavioral tendencies and traits, such as cooperation, trust,
reciprocity, altruism, spite, fairness, strategic thinking, and risk aversion. The
personality profile survey and the behavioral games are complementary as one
measures personality traits and the other behavioral tendencies, which are dis-
tinct concepts; e.g., agreeableness is distinct from a tendency to cooperate.
Such personality traits are predictive of various behavioral tendencies [11, 12].
Therefore including both dimensions provides a fuller picture.
    In line with Turing’s suggested test, we are the human interrogators who
compare the ChatGPTs’ choices to the choices of tens of thousands of humans
who were facing the same surveys and game instructions. We say an AI passes
the Turing test if its responses cannot be statistically distinguished from
randomly selected human responses.
     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?            3

    We find that the chatbots’ behaviors are generally within the support of
those of humans, with only a few exceptions. Their behavior is more concen-
trated than the full distribution of humans. However, we are comparing two
chatbots to tens of thousands of humans, and so a chatbot’s variation is within
subject and the variation in the human distribution is across subjects. The
chatbot variation may be similar to what a single individual would exhibit if
repeatedly queried. We do an explicit Turing Test by comparing an AI’s behav-
ior to a randomly selected human behavior, and ask which is the most likely
to be human based on a conditional probability calculation from the data.
The behaviors are generally indistinguishable, and ChatGPT-4 actually out-
performs humans on average, while the reverse is true for ChatGPT-3. There
are several games in which the AI behavior is picked more likely to be human
most of the time, and others where it is not. When they do differ, the chat-
bots’ behaviors tend to be more cooperative and altruistic than the median
human, including being more trusting, generous, and reciprocating.
    In that vein, we do a revealed-preference analysis in which we examine the
objective function that best predicts AI behavior. We find that it is an even
average of own and partner’s payoffs. That is, they act as if they are maximizing
the total payoff of both players rather than simply their own payoff. Human
behavior also is optimized with some weight on the other player, but the weight
depends on the preference specification and humans are more heterogeneous
and less well predicted.
    There are two other dimensions on which we compare AI and human behav-
ior. The first is whether context and framing matter, as they do with humans.
For example, when we ask them to explain their choices or tell them that their
choices will be observed by a third party, they become significantly more gen-
erous. Their behavior also changes if we suggest that they act as if they were
faced with a partner of a gender, or that they act as if they were a mathe-
matician, legislator, etc. The second dimension is that humans change their
behaviors after they have experienced different roles in a game. The chatbots
also exhibit significant changes in behaviors as they experience different roles
in a game. That is, once they have experienced the role of a ‘partner’ in an
asymmetric game, such as a trust game or an ultimatum game, their behavior
shifts significantly.
    Finally, it is worth noting that we observe behavioral differences between
the versions of ChatGPT that we test, so that they exhibit different personal-
ities and behavioral traits.

2 Methods and the Turing Test Design
We conduct interactive sessions, prompting AI chatbots to participate in classic
behavioral economics games and respond to survey questions using the same
instructions as given to human subjects. We compare how the chatbots behave
to how humans behave and also estimate which payoff function best predicts
the chatbots’ behaviors.
 4     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

     We examine the widely-used AI chatbot: ChatGPT developed by Ope-
 nAI. We primarily evaluate two specific versions of ChatGPT: the API version
 tagged as GPT-3.5-Turbo (referred to as ChatGPT-3) and the API version
 based on GPT-4 (denoted as ChatGPT-4). We also include the subscription-
 based Web version (Plus), and the freely available Web version (Free) for
 comparison (see Supporting Information Section A.1 for more description of
 the chatbots).
     The human subject data are derived from a public Big Five Test response
 database and the MobLab Classroom economics experiment platform, both
 spanning multiple years and more than 50 countries, encompassing 108,314
 subjects (19,719 for the Big Five Test, and 88,595 for the behavioral economics
 games, who are mostly college and high school students). Details about the
 human datasets, including the demographics of the subjects are included in
 the Supporting Information (Section A.2; and see also Lin et al., 2020 [13]
 who provide additional background details about the human data which cover
 North America, Europe, and Asia).
     We administer the OCEAN Big Five questionnaire to each chatbot to create
 a personality profile. Following this, we ask each chatbot what actions they
 would choose in a suite of six games designed to illuminate various behavioral
 traits (and fuller details appear in the Supporting Information A.1):
  (i) A Dictator Game—given an endowment of money, one player (the dictator)
      chooses how much of the money to keep and how much to donate to a
      second player. This involves altruism [14, 15].
 (ii) An Ultimatum Game—given an endowment of money, one player (the
      proposer) offers a split of the money to a second player (the responder)
      who either accepts the split or rejects it in which case neither player gets
      anything. This involves fairness and spite [14].
(iii) A Trust Game—given an endowment of money, one player (the investor)
      decides how much of the money to keep and passes the remainder to a second
      player (the banker), which is then tripled. The banker decides how much
      of that tripled revenue to keep and returns the remainder to the investor.
      This involves trust, fairness, altruism, and reciprocity [16].
(iv) A Bomb Risk Game—a player chooses how many boxes out of 100 to open
      and the player is rewarded for each opened box but loses everything if a
      randomly placed bomb is encountered. This involves risk aversion [17].
 (v) A Public Goods Game—given an endowment of money, a player chooses
      how much of the money to keep and how much to contribute to a public
      good and receives half of the total amount donated to the public good by
      all four players. This involves free-riding, altruism, and cooperation [18].
(vi) A finitely repeated Prisoners Dilemma Game—in each of five periods two
      players simultaneously choose whether to “cooperate” or “defect,” yielding
      the highest combined payoff if both cooperate but with one player get-
      ting a better payoff if they defect while the other cooperates. This involves
      cooperation, reciprocity, and strategic reasoning [19–22].
       A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?              5

Each chatbot answers each survey question and plays each role in each game
30 times in individual sessions. As we cannot pay the chatbots, we ask how
they would behave in each role in each game. Details about how the chatbots’
responses are collected can be found in Supporting Information Section A.1.

3 Results
Personality Profiles of the AIs
Figure 1 provides a summary of the chatbots’ Big Five personality profiles and
compares them with the human distribution. We illustrate the behaviors of
ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 specifically, as the Free Web version exhibits sim-
ilarities to ChatGPT-3, 1 and the Plus version aligns closely with ChatGPT-4.
2
  More detailed results, including those of the two Web-based versions, can be
found in Supporting Information C.

                                    Extraversion




Openness                                                             Neuroticism




Conscientiousness                                             Agreeableness


Fig. 1: “Big Five” personality profiles of ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 compared
with the distributions of human subjects. The blue, orange, and green lines
correspond to the median scores of humans, ChatGPT-4, and ChatGPT-3
respectively; the shaded areas represent the middle 95% of the scores, across each
of the dimensions. ChatGPT’s personality profiles are within the range of the
human distribution, even though ChatGPT-3 scored noticeably lower in Openness.


 1
     https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt, retrieved 08/02/2023.
 2
     https://openai.com/gpt-4, retrieved 08/02/2023.
6      A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

    The personality traits of ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4, as derived from their
responses to the OCEAN Big Five questionnaire, are depicted in Figure 1.
Comparing humans and chatbots, ChatGPT-4 exhibits substantial similar-
ity to the human respondents across all five dimensions in terms of the
median scores. ChatGPT-3 likewise demonstrates comparable patterns in four
dimensions but displays a relatively lower score in the dimension of open-
ness. Particularly, on extroversion, both chatbots score similarly to the median
human respondents, with ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 scoring higher than
53.4% and 49.4% of human respondents, respectively. On neuroticism, both
chatbots exhibit moderately lower scores than the median human. Specifically,
ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 score higher than 41.3% and 45.4% of humans,
respectively. As for agreeableness, both chatbots show lower scores than the
median human, with ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 surpassing 32.4% and 17.2%
of humans, respectively. While for conscientiousness, both chatbots fluctuate
around the median human, with ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 scoring higher
than 62.7% and 47.1% of human respondents. Both chatbots exhibit lower
openness than the median human, with ChatGPT-3’s being notably lower.
On this dimension, ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 score higher than 37.9% and
5.0% of humans, respectively.
    When comparing the two chatbots, we find that ChatGPT-4 has higher
agreeableness, higher conscientiousness, higher openness, slightly higher
extraversion, and slightly lower neuroticism than ChatGPT-3, consistent with
each chatbot having a distinct personality.

The Games and the Turing Test
We perform a formal Turing Test as follows. Consider a game and role, for
instance, the giver in the Dictator Game. We randomly pick one action from
the chatbot’s distribution and one action from the human distribution. We
then ask, which action “looks more typically human?” Specifically, we ask
which of the two actions is more likely under the human distribution. If AI
picks an action that is very rare under the human distribution then it is likely
to lose in the sense that the human’s play will often be estimated to be more
likely under the human distribution. If AI picks the modal human action then
it will either be estimated as being more likely under the human distribution
or else tie.3
    The results appear in Figure 2. As a benchmark, we also report what
happens when two humans are matched against each other. In that case, there
should be equal wins and losses (up to variations due to taking only 10,000
draws). We see that overall (on average) ChatGPT-4 is actually picked as

   3
     Alternatively, one instead also use the AI distribution and do relative Bayesian updating,
and assign posterior probabilities of being human vs AI taking into account the action’s relative
likelihood under each of the distributions. That is less in the spirit of what Turing described as it
would require the interrogator to have knowledge about the AI behavior, but also an interesting
question. In a case in which AI plays a tighter distribution, even if the modal human action,
such Bayesian updating would pick out AI more often. For example, if AI always plays the modal
human action and humans vary their action, then in our test AI always wins or ties, while under
Bayesian updating with precise knowledge of AI behavior it would always lose.
        A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                                                      7

human or ties significantly more often than a random human, while ChatGPT-
3 is picked as human less often than a random human. In this particular sense,
ChatGPT-4 would pass this Turing Test, while ChatGPT-3 would fail it.

                                            Estimated More Likely Human             Estimated Equally Likely Human/AI             Estimated More Likely AI

ChatGPT-4   45.2%                 23.5%           31.3%    45.6%                   20.6%            33.9%    66.1%                                  33.9%

ChatGPT-3   30.0%         24.7%                   45.3%    14.3% 10.4%                              75.4%    34.9%              19.5%                  45.6%

   Human    39.5%             21.1%               39.5%    39.7%                  20.8%             39.5%    39.6%                 20.6%               39.8%

                            (a) Average                                      (b) Dictator                                (c) Ultimatum - Proposer


ChatGPT-4   38.8%            18.6%                42.6%    24.8%    10.0%                           65.2%    53.0%                      18.6%          28.4%

ChatGPT-3   23.9%   12.8%                         63.3%    22.4%   9.4%                             68.2%    52.5%                      18.0%          29.5%

   Human    41.3%             18.1%               40.7%    42.4%                15.0%               42.6%    41.3%                 17.3%               41.4%

                    (d) Ultimatum - Responder                             (e) Trust - Investor                             (f) Trust – Banker *


ChatGPT-4   63.4%                         20.6%   15.9%    66.0%                             18.5% 15.5%     3.8%       45.9%                          50.3%

ChatGPT-3   19.7%             60.6%               19.8%    61.7%                            18.2%   20.2%    10.5%        47.4%                        42.1%

   Human    42.9%             14.1%               43.1%    43.7%                12.7%               43.6%    24.8%                 50.5%               24.8%

                        (g) Public Goods                                    (h) Bomb Risk                                 (i) Prisoner’s Dilemma

Fig. 2: The Turing test. We compare a random play of Player A (ChatGPT-4,
ChatGPT-3, or a human player, respectively) and a random play of a second Player
B’s action (which is sampled randomly from the human population). We compare
which action is more typical of the human distribution: which one would be more
likely under the human distribution of play. The green bar indicates how frequently
Player A’s action is more likely under the human distribution than Player B’s
action, while the red bar is the reverse, and the yellow indicates that they are
equally likely (usually the same action). ChatGPT-4 is picked as more likely to be
human more often than humans in 5/8 of the games, and on average across all
games. ChatGPT-3 is picked as or more likely to be human more often than
humans in 2/8 of the games and not on average.



    The results vary nontrivially across games. ChatGPT-4 does better than or
comparably to humans in all games except in the Prisoner’s Dilemma (where
it cooperates most of the time and the human mode is to defect) and as the
Investor role in the Trust Game (in which it generally invests half while humans
tend to be more extreme one way or the other). ChatGPT-3 does well in a few
games, but is outperformed by humans in 6 of the 8 games, and overall.

Comparisons of ChatGPTs’ Behaviors to Humans’ on a
Variety of Dimensions
We also look at distributions of behaviors in more detail across games by
comparing the distribution of an AI’s responses to the distribution of human
responses. Note that a human distribution is mostly obtained from one obser-
vation per human, so its variation is between subjects. Variation in an AI
distribution is obtained from the same chatbot, so it is within subject. Thus,
the fact that the distributions differ is not informative, but the following
information about the distributions is useful to note.
8    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

    Human players’ actions generally exhibit multiple peaks and nontrivial
variance, indicating the presence of varied behavioral patterns across the pop-
ulation. In most games, the responses of ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 are not
deterministic when the same games are repeated (except for ChatGPT-4 in
the Dictator game and in the Ultimatum Game as the proposer) and adhere
to certain distributions. Typically, the distributions produced by the chat-
bots encompass a subset of the modes observed in the corresponding human
distributions. As illustrated in Figure 3, ChatGPT-3 makes decisions that
result in usually single-mode, and moderately skewed distributions with non-
trivial variance. Conversely, ChatGPT-4’s decisions form more concentrated
distributions.
    Next, we examine in more detail some of the behavioral traits that have
been associated with the suite of games we use.
                     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                                                                                                                9




                                    Human                                                      Human                                                 Human                                                    Human
          0.03                                                              0.03                                                 0.02                                                   0.02

Density                                                           Density                                              Density                                                Density
          0.02                                                              0.02
                                                                                                                                 0.01                                                   0.01
          0.01                                                              0.01
          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00                                                   0.00
                                ChatGPT-4                                                   ChatGPT-4                                            ChatGPT-4                                                ChatGPT-4
          0.10                                                              0.10
                                                                                                                                 0.04                                                   0.06

Density                                                           Density                                              Density                                                Density
          0.05                                                              0.05                                                                                                        0.04
                                                                                                                                 0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.02
          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00                                                   0.00
                                ChatGPT-3                                                   ChatGPT-3                                            ChatGPT-3                                                ChatGPT-3
                                                                                                                                 0.04                                                   0.03
          0.04                                                              0.04
Density                                                           Density                                              Density                                                Density
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.02
          0.02                                                                                                                   0.02
                                                                            0.02                                                                                                        0.01
          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00                                                   0.00
                     10       30       50         70         90                    10     30      50         70   90                    10      30      50     70        90                     10       30        50      70     90
                              Split offered ($)                                         Proposal to give ($)                            Minimum proposal to accept ($)                                   Investment ($)


(a) Dictator                                                      (b) Ultimatum -                                      (c) Ultimatum -                                        (d) Trust - as
(altruism)                                                        Proposer (fairness)                                  Responder (spite)                                      Investor (trust)


                                                                                                                                                                                                        Human

                                    Human                                                      Human
                                                                                                                                                     Human
          0.02                                                                                                                   0.02                                                      Cooperate                     Defect
                                                                            0.10                                                                                                           45.12%                       54.88%

Density   0.01                                                    Density   0.05
                                                                                                                       Density   0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ChatGPT-4
          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00
                                ChatGPT-4                                                   ChatGPT-4                                            ChatGPT-4                                 Cooperate                    Defect
                                                                            0.40                                                 0.08                                                      91.67%                       8.33%

          0.04                                                                                                                   0.05
Density                                                           Density   0.20                                       Density                                                                         ChatGPT-3
          0.02                                                                                                                   0.03

          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                           Cooperate                     Defect
                                ChatGPT-3                                                   ChatGPT-3                                            ChatGPT-3                                 76.67%                       23.34%
          0.06                                                                                                                   0.06
                                                                            0.30

Density                                                           Density                                              Density
          0.04                                                              0.20                                                 0.04
          0.02                                                              0.10                                                 0.02
          0.00                                                              0.00                                                 0.00
                 0    25       50     75     100       125                         2       6      10         14   18                    10      30      50     70        90
                           Return to investor ($)                                         Contribution ($)                                    # of boxes opened
                                                                                                                                                                              (h) Prisoner’s
(e) Trust - as Banker                                             (f ) Public Goods                                    (g) Bomb Risk (risk                                    Dilemma
(fairness, altruism,                                              (free-riding, altruism,                              aversion)                                              (cooperation)
reciprocity)                                                      cooperation)

Fig. 3: Distributions of choices of ChatGPT-4, ChatGPT-3, and human subjects
in each game. Both chatbots’ distributions are more tightly clustered and contained
within the range of the human distribution. ChatGPT-4 makes more concentrated
decisions than ChatGPT-3. Compared to the human distribution, on average, the
AIs make a more generous split to the other player as a dictator, as the proposer in
the Ultimatum Game, and as the Banker in the Trust Game, on average.
ChatGPT-4 proposes a strictly equal split of the endowment both as a dictator or
as the proposer in the Ultimatum Game. Both AIs make a larger investment in the
Trust Game and a larger contribution to the Public Goods project, on average.
They are more likely to cooperate with the other player in the first round of the
Prisoner’s Dilemma Game. Both AIs predominantly make a payoff-maximization
decision in a single-round Bomb Risk Game. Density is the normalized count such
that the total area of the histogram equals 1.
10     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

Altruism
In games that involve distributional concerns, the chatbots act more gener-
ously to the other player than the human median. In particular, they display
increased generosity: in the Dictator Game (Fig. 3a), as the proposer in the
Ultimatum Game (Fig. 3b), and as the banker in the Trust Game (Fig. 3e),
and as a contributor in the Public Goods Game (Fig. 10f). Note that from the
perspective of maximizing the player’s own payoff, the most beneficial strate-
gies would be to give $0 to the other player in the Dictator Game, return $0 to
the investor as the banker in the Trust Game, and contribute $0 in the Public
Goods Game. Even though these strategies are chosen by a significant portion
of human players, they were never chosen by the chatbots.
    ChatGPT’s decisions are consistent with some forms of altruism, fairness,
empathy, and reciprocity rather than maximization of its personal payoff. To
explore this in more detail, we calculate the own payoff of the chatbots, the
payoff of their (human) partner, and the combined payoff for both players
in each game. These calculations are based on ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3’s
strategies when paired with a player randomly drawn from the distribution
of human players. Similarly, we calculate the expected payoff of the human
players when randomly paired with another human player. The results are
presented in Table 1 in Supporting Information.
    In particular, ChatGPT-4 obtains a higher own payoff than human players
in the Ultimatum Game and a lower own payoff in all other games. In all seven
games, it yields a higher partner payoff. Moreover, it achieves the highest com-
bined payoff for both players in five out of seven games, the exceptions being
the Dictator game and the Trust Game as the banker (where the combined
payoff is constant).
    These findings are indicative of ChatGPT-4’s increased level of altruism
and cooperation compared to the human player distribution. ChatGPT-3 has a
more mixed payoff pattern. For example, although it yields a lower own payoff
in the Trust Game and the Public Goods Game compared to ChatGPT-4, it
achieves the highest partner payoff and combined payoff in the in the Public
Goods Game, as well as the highest partner payoff in the Trust game as the
banker.

Fairness
ChatGPT-3 typically proposes a more favorable deal to the other player in
games where the outcome depends on the other player’s approval (i.e., in the
Ultimatum Game) compared to when it doesn’t (i.e., in the Dictator Game),
mirroring behavior observed in the human data. In contrast, ChatGPT-4 con-
sistently prioritizes fairness in its decision-making process. This is evidenced
by its equal split of the endowment, whether acting as a dictator or as a pro-
poser in the Ultimatum Game, particularly when asked to explain its decisions
(see Fig. 12a in Supporting Information).
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?            11

    In the Ultimatum Game as responder, less than a fifth of human players are
willing to accept as low as $1 as proposed by the other player (Fig. 3c), despite
this being the dominant strategy for the responder in the game. Interestingly,
this forms the most common response of ChatGPT-4. However, there is another
peak at $50, which is close to the modal human response and corresponds to
the fair split.

Trust
Generally speaking, ChatGPT-4 displays more “trust” in the banker (the
first/other player) compared to ChatGPT-3, by investing a higher proportion
of the endowment, as shown in Fig. 3d. This is more trust than exhibited by
humans, except for a group that invests their entire endowment. Both chat-
bots also tend to invest more in public goods projects than human players, as
shown in Fig. 10f.

Cooperation
ChatGPT’s first action is most often cooperative in the Prisoner’s Dilemma
Game (Fig. 3h). In particular, ChatGPT-4’s strategy in the first round is
substantially more cooperative than human players, with a large majority
(91.7%) of sessions opting to cooperate, as opposed to 45.1% of human play-
ers. ChatGPT-3’s strategy lies somewhere in between, with 76.7% choosing to
cooperate. Both ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 are also more cooperative than
human players in the Public Goods Game (Fig. 10f).

Tit-for-Tat
While chatbots exhibit a higher cooperative tendency in the Prisoner’s
Dilemma Game than the typical human subject, their cooperation is not
unconditional. As shown in Fig. 4a, if the other player cooperates in the first
round, ChatGPT-4’s decision remains consistent in the following round. On
the other hand, around half of the ChatGPT-3’s sessions that chose defection
in the first round switched to cooperation in the second round. A small pro-
portion of the cooperative sessions also switch to defection, mimicking similar
behavior observed among human subjects.
    When the other player defects in the first round, however, all previously
cooperative sessions of ChatGPT-4 switch to defection, showcasing a play that
would be similar to a “Tit-for-Tat” pattern as illustrated in Fig. 4b. This
pattern is also observed in human players and ChatGPT-3, although to a lesser
but still majority extent. There are additional dynamics for further study in
repeated game settings, as the chatbots often revert to cooperation even if the
other player continues to defect (Fig. 14 in Supporting Information).

Risk Aversion
The chatbots also differ in their exhibited risk preferences. In the Bomb Risk
Game (Fig. 5), both ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 predominantly opt for the
12      A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

           Human                     ChatGPT-4                     ChatGPT-3




(a) The other player cooperates.

           Human                     ChatGPT-4                     ChatGPT-3




(b) The other player defects.



Fig. 4: ChatGPT’s dynamic play in the Prisoner’s Dilemma. ChatGPT-4 exhibits
a higher tendency to cooperate compared to ChatGPT-3, which is significantly
more cooperative than human players. The tendency persists when the other player
cooperates. On the other hand, both chatbots apply a one-round Tit-for-Tat
strategy when the other player defects. The other player’s (first round) choice is
observed after Round 1 play and before Round 2 play, as shown below each panel.


expected payoff-maximizing decision of opening 50 boxes. This contrasts with
the more varied human decisions, which include a distinct group of extreme
subjects who only open one box.
    Interestingly, the chatbots’ decisions in this game are influenced by the
outcomes of previous rounds, despite their independence. If the bomb exploded
in a prior round, ChatGPT-3 tends to adopt a more risk-averse behavior by
opting to open fewer boxes - a trend mirrored, to a lesser extent, in human
data. Meanwhile, the preferred decision of ChatGPT-4 remains constant, albeit
with higher variance.
    In instances where the bomb did not explode, the decisions of both
ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 converge and revert to the expected payoff-
maximizing option. Overall, ChatGPT-4 displays a consistent and neutral risk
preference. ChatGPT-3, however, tends towards risk aversion, especially in
unexpected contexts - a pattern that is also observed when it acts as the
investor in the Trust Game, where it makes the lowest investment on average.

Revealed-Preferences
Given the observations above, especially regarding fairness, cooperation, and
altruism, we perform a systematic analysis by inferring which preferences
would rationalize the AIs’ behaviors. This enables one to make predictions
     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                13
           First Round
             Strategy
                                      NO BOMB
                                                      💣 BOMB




                                                                        Second
                                                                        Round
                                                                        Strategy




                         NO BOMB
                                         💣 BOMB       NO BOMB          💣 BOMB



   Third
  Round
Strategy




Fig. 5: ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 act as if they have particular risk preferences.
Both have the same mode as human distribution in the first round or when
experiencing favorable outcomes in the Bomb Risk Game. When experiencing
negative outcomes, ChatGPT-4 remains consistent and risk-neutral, while
ChatGPT-3 acts as if it becomes more risk-averse.


out of sample, and so we estimate an objective function that best predicts AI
behavior. In particular, just as is done with humans, we estimate which util-
ity function predicts decisions as if it were being maximized. This can then be
used in future analyses to predict AI behavior in new settings.
    First, we consider a utility function that is a weighted average of the two
players’ payoffs:

                          b × Own Payoff + (1 − b) × Partner Payoff,

for some b ∈ [0, 1]. Purely selfish preferences correspond to b = 1 and purely
selfless-altruistic preferences correspond to b = 0, and maximizing the total
payoff of both players corresponds to b = 1/2.
    We estimate which b best predicts behavior. Consider the distribution of
play from the human distribution. Given that distribution of partner play,
14     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

for every b ∈ [0, 1] there is a best-response payoff: the best possible expected
utility that the player could earn across actions if their utility function was
described by b. Then we can see what action they choose, and see what fraction
of that best possible expected payoff they earn when that is matched against
the human distribution of partner play. The difference (in proportional terms)
is the error. We average that squared error across the distribution of actions
that the chatbot (or human) plays in that game. We then look at the average
squared error across all plays, and select the b ∈ [0, 1] that minimizes that
mean-squared error. The results as a function of b are reported in Figure 6.
    For the linear specification (above), the errors for both the chatbots are
minimized at b = .5, and those for humans are minimized at a nearby point b =
.6 (see the Supporting Information B.2 for per-game estimates). ChatGPT-4’s
behavior exhibits the smallest error in that case, while the humans’ behavior
is the most varied, exhibits the highest errors, and is the least well-predicted
of the three by b = .5.
    The estimated b varies across games, with the best fit being selfish (b = 1.0)
in the Ultimatum Game, but being centered around b = .5 in the other games
(see Supporting Information Fig. 10). We also perform a multinomial logistic
discrete choice analysis and estimate the best fitting b’s by each game and find
similar results (Supporting Information Table 2).
    We also note that a linear specification does not fully capture preferences
for relative payoffs as, for example, when b = .5 how a total payoff is allocated
is inconsequential. Instead, if one works with a CES (Constant Elasticity of
Substitution) utility function [23] of the form
                                                                  2
            b × (Own Payoff)1/2 + (1 − b) × (Partner Payoff)1/2         ,

then relative allocations across the two players are more distinguished. For
this specification we see the human error curve shift to have the weight that
minimizes errors be more selfish, and we see more distinction between all three
of ChatGPT-4, ChatGPT-3, and the humans. This also carries over game by
game as shown in the Supporting Information (see Fig. 11).
                               A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                                        15




                              0.35                                                                              0.35
                                                                      Human                                                                             Human
                              0.30                                    ChatGPT-4                                 0.30                                    ChatGPT-4
                                                                      ChatGPT-3                                                                         ChatGPT-3




 Optimization squared error                                                        Optimization squared error
                              0.25                                                                              0.25

                              0.20                                                                              0.20

                              0.15                                                                              0.15

                              0.10                                                                              0.10

                              0.05                                                                              0.05

                                     0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                       0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
                                                         b                                                                                 b

(a) Linear specification (r = 1).                                                  (b) Non-linear (CES) specification (r = 0.5).
Fig. 6: Mean squared error of the actual distribution of play relative to the
best-response payoff, when matched with a partner playing the human distribution
for possible preferences indexed by b. The average is across all games. The errors
are plotted for each possible b, the weight on own vs partner payoff in the utility
function. b = 1 is the purely selfish (own) payoff, b = 0 is the purely
selfless/altruistic (partner) payoff, and b = .5 is the overall welfare (average) payoff,
and other bs are weighted averages of own and other payoffs. Both chatbots’
behaviors are best predicted by b = .5, and those of humans are best predicted by
b = .6; they best predict ChatGPT-4’s behavior and have higher errors in the other
cases. The top panel is for utility = b × Own Payoff + (1 − b) × Partner Payoff. The
bottom panel is for CES (Constant Elasticity of Substitution) preferences:
                                                                  2
utility = b × (Own Payoff)1/2 + (1 − b) × (Partner Payoff)1/2 .
16     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

Framing and Context
Human behavior can be significantly altered by framing (e.g. [24]). We examine
whether AI behavior also varies with how a given strategic setting is framed.
We find, that similar to humans, ChatGPT’s decisions can be significantly
influenced by changes in the framing or context of the same strategic setting.
A request for an explanation of its decision, or asking them to act as if they
come from some specific occupation can have an impact.
    The Supporting Information has detailed prompts used for framing the
AI (see Supporting Information A.1.3), and it also presents distributions of
behaviors (Supporting Information B.3). Here are some examples of how the
framing matters.
    When ChatGPT-3 is asked to explicitly explain its decision or when it
is aware that the Dictator Game is witnessed by a third-party observer (a
game host), it demonstrates significantly greater generosity as the dictator (see
Supporting Information Fig. 12a).
    In the Ultimatum Game, when ChatGPT-4 is made aware of the gender of
the proposer (regardless of what it is), its decision as the responder moves away
from the dominant strategy of accepting any proposal and starts demanding
higher splits on average (Supporting Information Fig. 12b), even though we
do not observe a specific gender effect.
    In the Trust Game (see Fig. 12d, 12e, 12f in Supporting Information),
as the size of the potential investment is increased, ChatGPT-4’s strategy as
the banker shifts from returning the original investment plus an even split of
the profit (which equals a doubled investment) to evenly splitting the entire
revenue (which is a tripled investment). By contrast, ChatGPT-3 tends to
make a more generous return to the investor when the potential investment is
larger.
    ChatGPT’s decisions are also impacted when they are asked to play the
games as if they are from a given occupation, altering their default role as
a helpful assistant (see Supporting Information A.1.3). For instance, in the
Ultimatum Game as the responder (Supporting Information Fig. 12c), when
ChatGPT-4 is prompted to play as a mathematician, its decision shifts towards
the dominant strategy, agreeing to accept as low as $1 in most cases. Con-
versely, when prompted to be a legislator, its decisions align more with what
is traditionally considered ‘fair’: demanding $50 in the majority of cases.

Learning
One last thing we investigate is the extent to which the chatbots’ behaviors
change as they gain experience in different roles in a game, as if they were
learning from such experience. This is something that is true of humans (e.g.,
[25]).
    In games with multiple roles (such as the Ultimatum Game and the Trust
Game), the AIs’ decisions can be influenced by previous exposure to another
role. For instance, if ChatGPT-3 has previously acted as the responder in the
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?            17

Ultimatum Game, it tends to propose a higher offer when it later plays as
the proposer, while ChatGPT-4’s proposal remains unchanged (see Supporting
Information Fig. 13a). Conversely, when ChatGPT-4 has previously been the
proposer, it tends to request a smaller split as the responder (Fig. 13b).
    Playing the banker’s role in the Trust Game, especially when the investment
is large, also influences ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3’s subsequent decisions as
the investor, leading them to invest more (see Supporting Information Fig.
13c). Similarly, having played the investor first also influences the AIs’ subse-
quent decisions as the banker, resulting in both ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4
returning more to the investor (see Supporting Information Fig. 13d).
    Our analyses of learning and framing are far from systematic, and it would
be interesting to compare how the effects of context change AI behavior to
how context changes human behavior. For example, it would be interesting
to see how chatbots act when asked to assume the role of a specific gender,
demographic group, or personality profile.

4 Discussion
We have sidestepped the question of whether artificial intelligence can think
[26–28], which was a central point of Turing’s original essay [1], but we have
performed a test along the lines of what he suggested. We have found that
AI and human behavior are remarkably similar. Moreover, not only does AI’s
behavior sit within the human subject distribution in most games and ques-
tions, but it also exhibits signs of human-like complex behavior such as learning
and changes in behavior from role-playing. On the optimistic side, when AI
deviates from human behavior, the deviations are in a positive direction: act-
ing as if it is more altruistic and cooperative. This may make AI well-suited
for roles necessitating negotiation, dispute resolution, or caregiving, and may
fulfill the dream of producing AI that is “more human than human.” This
makes them potentially valuable in sectors such as conflict resolution, customer
service, and healthcare.
    The observation that ChatGPT’s, especially ChatGPT-4’s, behavior is
more concentrated and consistent evokes both optimism and apprehension.
This is similar to what might happen if a single human were compared to the
population. However, the chatbots are used in technologies that interact with
huge numbers of others and so this narrowness has consequences. Positively,
its rationality and constancy make AI highly attractive for various decision-
making contexts and make it more stable and predictable. However, this also
raises concerns regarding the potential loss of diversity in personalities and
strategies (compared to the human population), especially when put into new
settings and making important new decisions.
    Our work establishes a straightforward yet effective framework and bench-
mark for evaluating chatbots and other AI as they are rapidly evolving. This
may pave the way for a new field in AI behavioral assessment. The AI that we
tested was not necessarily programmed to pass this sort of Turing Test, and
18     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

so that raises the question of when and how AI that is designed to converse
with and inform humans, and is trained on human-generated data, necessarily
behaves human-like more broadly. That could also help in advancing our under-
standing of why humans exhibit certain traits. Most importantly, the future
will tell the extent to which AI enhances humans rather than substituting for
them.[29, 30]
    In terms of limitations, given that our human data are collected from stu-
dents, it is important to expand the reference population in further analyses.
The games we have chosen are prominent ones, but one can imagine expanding
the suite of analyses included in a Turing Test, and also tailoring such tests
to the specific tasks that are entrusted to different versions of AI. In addition,
the chatbots tested here are just one of a growing number, and a snapshot
at a specific point in time of a rapidly evolving form of AI. Thus, the results
should not be taken as broadly representative, but instead should be taken as
illustrative of a testing approach and what can be learned about particular
instances of AI.

References
 [1] Turing, A.M.: Computing machinery and intelligence. MIND: A Quarterly
     Review of Psychology and Philosophy 54(236), 433–460 (1950)

 [2] Warwick, K.: Turing test success marks milestone in computing history.
     University or Reading Press Release 8 (2014)

 [3] Bubeck, S., Chandrasekaran, V., Eldan, R., Gehrke, J., Horvitz, E.,
     Kamar, E., Lee, P., Lee, Y.T., Li, Y., Lundberg, S., et al.: Sparks of arti-
     ficial general intelligence: Early experiments with gpt-4. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2303.12712 (2023)

 [4] Girotra, K., Meincke, L., Terwiesch, C., Ulrich, K.T.: Ideas are dimes a
     dozen: Large language models for idea generation in innovation. Available
     at SSRN 4526071 (2023)

 [5] Chen, Y., Liu, T.X., Shan, Y., Zhong, S.: The emergence of economic
     rationality of gpt. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
     120(51), 2316205120 (2023)

 [6] Eloundou, T., Manning, S., Mishkin, P., Rock, D.: Gpts are gpts: An early
     look at the labor market impact potential of large language models. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2303.10130 (2023)

 [7] Lee, P., Bubeck, S., Petro, J.: Benefits, limits, and risks of gpt-4 as an ai
     chatbot for medicine. New England Journal of Medicine 388(13), 1233–
     1239 (2023)

 [8] Shackelford, S., Trautman, L.J., Voss, W.G.: How we learned to stop
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?            19

    worrying and love ai: Analyzing the rapid evolution of generative pre-
    trained transformer (gpt) and its impacts on law, business, and society.
    Business, and Society (July 20, 2023) (2023)

 [9] Bommasani, R., Klyman, K., Longpre, S., Kapoor, S., Maslej, N., Xiong,
     B., Zhang, D., Liang, P.: The foundation model transparency index. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2310.12941 (2023)

[10] Elkins, K., Chun, J.: Can gpt-3 pass a writer’s turing test? Journal of
     Cultural Analytics 5(2) (2020)

[11] Roberts, B.W.: Back to the future: Personality and assessment and per-
     sonality development. Journal of research in personality 43(2), 137–145
     (2009)

[12] Almlund, M., Duckworth, A.L., Heckman, J., Kautz, T.: Personality psy-
     chology and economics. In: Handbook of the Economics of Education vol.
     4, pp. 1–181. Elsevier, ??? (2011)

[13] Lin, P.-H., Brown, A.L., Imai, T., Wang, J.T.-y., Wang, S.W., Camerer,
     C.F.: Evidence of general economic principles of bargaining and trade from
     2,000 classroom experiments. Nature Human Behaviour 4(9), 917–927
     (2020)

[14] Güth, W., Schmittberger, R., Schwarze, B.: An experimental analysis of
     ultimatum bargaining. Journal of economic behavior & organization 3(4),
     367–388 (1982)

[15] Forsythe, R., Horowitz, J.L., Savin, N.E., Sefton, M.: Fairness in simple
     bargaining experiments. Games and Economic behavior 6(3), 347–369
     (1994)

[16] Berg, J., Dickhaut, J., McCabe, K.: Trust, reciprocity, and social history.
     Games and economic behavior 10(1), 122–142 (1995)

[17] Crosetto, P., Filippin, A.: The “bomb” risk elicitation task. Journal of
     risk and uncertainty 47, 31–65 (2013)

[18] Andreoni, J.: Cooperation in public-goods experiments: kindness or
     confusion? The American Economic Review, 891–904 (1995)

[19] Von Neumann, J., Morgenstern, O.: Theory of Games and Economic
     Behavior, 2nd Rev. Princeton university press, ??? (1947)

[20] Schelling, T.C.: The strategy of conflict. prospectus for a reorientation of
     game theory. Journal of Conflict Resolution 2(3), 203–264 (1958)

[21] Rapoport, A., Chammah, A.M.: Prisoner’s Dilemma: A Study in Conflict
20     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

     and Cooperation vol. 165. University of Michigan press, ??? (1965)

[22] Andreoni, J., Varian, H.: Preplay contracting in the prisoners’ dilemma.
     Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 96(19), 10933–10938
     (1999)

[23] McFadden, D.: Constant elasticity of substitution production functions.
     The Review of Economic Studies 30(2), 73–83 (1963)

[24] Tversky, A., Kahneman, D.: Rational choice and the framing of deci-
     sions. In: Multiple Criteria Decision Making and Risk Analysis Using
     Microcomputers, pp. 81–126. Springer, ??? (1989)

[25] Benndorf, V., Moellers, C., Normann, H.-T.: Experienced vs. inexperi-
     enced participants in the lab: Do they behave differently? Journal of the
     Economic Science Association 3, 12–25 (2017)

[26] Mitchell, M.: How do we know how smart ai systems are? Science
     381(6654), 5957 (2023)

[27] Butlin, P., Long, R., Elmoznino, E., Bengio, Y., Birch, J., Constant, A.,
     Deane, G., Fleming, S.M., Frith, C., Ji, X., et al.: Consciousness in artifi-
     cial intelligence: Insights from the science of consciousness. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2308.08708 (2023)

[28] Shapira, N., Levy, M., Alavi, S.H., Zhou, X., Choi, Y., Goldberg, Y., Sap,
     M., Shwartz, V.: Clever hans or neural theory of mind? stress testing social
     reasoning in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14763
     (2023)

[29] Rahwan, I., Cebrian, M., Obradovich, N., Bongard, J., Bonnefon, J.-F.,
     Breazeal, C., Crandall, J.W., Christakis, N.A., Couzin, I.D., Jackson,
     M.O., et al.: Machine behaviour. Nature 568(7753), 477–486 (2019)

[30] Brynjolfsson, E.: The turing trap: The promise & peril of human-like
     artificial intelligence. Daedalus 151(2), 272–287 (2022)

[31] Goldberg, L.R.: The structure of phenotypic personality traits. American
     psychologist 48(1), 26 (1993)

[32] McCrae, R.R., Costa Jr, P.T.: Personality trait structure as a human
     universal. American psychologist 52(5), 509 (1997)

[33] Roccas, S., Sagiv, L., Schwartz, S.H., Knafo, A.: The big five personality
     factors and personal values. Personality and social psychology bulletin
     28(6), 789–801 (2002)

[34] McCrae, R.R., Costa Jr, P.T.: The five-factor theory of personality.
   A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?          21

    Theoretical Perspectives (2008)

[35] Goldberg, L.R.: The development of markers for the big-five factor
     structure. Psychological assessment 4(1), 26 (1992)

[36] OpenAI: GPT-4 Technical Report (2023)

[37] Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wainwright, C., Mishkin,
     P., Zhang, C., Agarwal, S., Slama, K., Ray, A., et al.: Training language
     models to follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in Neural
     Information Processing Systems 35, 27730–27744 (2022)

[38] McFadden, D., et al.: Conditional logit analysis of qualitative choice
     behavior. Frontiers in Econometrics (1973)
22     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

Supporting Information
A Method
A.1 Collecting Chatbot Responses
We ran the interaction sessions with ChatGPT using the official API pro-
vided by OpenAI4 . In the main paper, “ChatGPT-4” refers to the model
gpt-4-0314 (snapshot of gpt-4 from March 14th 2023), and “ChatGPT-3”
refers to the model gpt-3.5-turbo-0301 (snapshot of gpt-3.5-turbo from
March 1st 2023)5 . We also tested the subscription-based ChatGPT Web ver-
sion (Plus) and the freely available Web version (Free), retrieved in February
2023 through a third-party open source package revChatGPT6 .
    To avoid introducing confounders, we acquire the models’ responses
through the Chat Completion API7 with default parameters (sampling tem-
perature as 1, number of chat completion choices as 1, and maximum
number of tokens as infinity) and default system prompt “You are a helpful
assistant.” as suggested by the official guide8 unless otherwise specified (e.g.,
see Sections A.1.1 and A.1.3).
    Different snapshots of even the same chatbot version (e.g., ChatGPT-3),
particularly the Web versions, can respond differently to the same query, and
occasionally do not respond to queries. To mitigate this issue, it is advised to
utilize the API versions or the OpenAI Platform Playground and specify the
exact snapshot for testing a chatbot9 . Valid actions rendered by the models
are initially extracted from the AIs’ responses using regular expressions or the
gpt-3.5-turbo API. Subsequently, these extracted decisions undergo a man-
ual verification process to ensure accuracy and relevance. Invalid responses
are excluded from our analysis. More details can be found in the code and
data repository: https://github.com/yutxie/ChatGPT-Behavioral, retrieved
12/29/2023.

A.1.1 OCEAN Big Five Test
The five-factor model (FFM), also known as the Big Five personality traits or
the OCEAN model, was conceptualized in the 1980s and has been developed
and refined over the past five decades. This model represents a comprehensive
structure of traits that characterize individuals’ personalities [31–34]. Each
factor is defined by a cluster of intercorrelated traits known as facets. The five
factors and their respective facets are, with descriptions following [33]:

  4
    OpenAI API: https://platform.openai.com/, retrieved 04/2023.
  5
    OpenAI models: https://platform.openai.com/docs/models, retrieved 04/2023.
  6
    revChatGPT: https://github.com/acheong08/ChatGPT, retrieved 03/08/2023.
  7
    OpenAI Chat Completion API: https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat,
retrieved 03/2023.
  8
    OpenAI Chat Completion API Guide: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt/
chat-completions-api, retrieved 03/2023.
  9
    The snapshots can be accessed and tested via both API and OpenAI Platform Playground
(E.g.,    https://platform.openai.com/playground?mode=chat&model=gpt-4-0314,    retrieved
12/28/2023).
   A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?           23

• Openness to experience: People with high scores in this trait are usually
  intellectual, imaginative, sensitive, and open-minded. Conversely, those with
  low scores are typically practical, less sensitive, and more traditional.
• Conscientiousness: Those who rank high in this dimension are generally
  careful, meticulous, responsible, organized, and principled. On the other
  hand, individuals with low scores in this trait often appear irresponsible,
  disorganized, and lacking in principles.
• Extraversion: High scorers in Extraversion are often sociable, talkative,
  assertive, and energetic; whereas low scorers are more likely to be intro-
  verted, quiet, and cautious.
• Agreeableness: Individuals scoring high on Agreeableness are often seen as
  amiable, accommodating, modest, gentle, and cooperative. In contrast, those
  with low scores may appear irritable, unsympathetic, distrustful, and rigid.
• Neuroticism: People with high levels of Neuroticism tend to experience anx-
  iety, depression, anger, and insecurity. Those scoring low on this trait are
  usually calm, composed, and emotionally stable.
    In our study, we utilize the 50-item International Personality Item Pool
(IPIP) representation of the Big Five factor structure, which is based on the
markers developed by Goldberg [35]. This questionnaire consists of 50 items
in total, with each of the five factors represented by 10 questions. The IPIP
representation provides a standardized and widely used measure for assessing
individuals’ personality traits within the framework of the Big Five model.
The questionnaire is available in our released data and code repository.
    During the test phase, we adopt a specific approach for administering the
questionnaire items to the chat models. For each item and chat model under
investigation, we generate 30 independent chat instances. The system prompt
is intentionally left empty to allow the chatbot models to generate responses
based solely on the chat prompt provided.
    The chat prompt for each questionnaire item follows a standardized for-
mat and includes the necessary instructions for participants. It is structured
as follows: “The following item was rated on a five-point scale
where 1=Disagree, 2=Partially Disagree, 3=Neutral, 4=Partially
Agree, 5=Agree. Please select how the statement describes you
and highlight your answer in [] (such as [1], [2], [3], [4], or
[5]). + [Questionnaire item].”
    For example, a specific prompt might be: “The following item
was rated on a five-point scale where 1=Disagree, 2=Partially
Disagree, 3=Neutral, 4=Partially Agree, 5=Agree. Please select
how the statement describes you and highlight your answer in
[] (such as [1], [2], [3], [4], or [5]). I am the life of the
party.”
    Note that some versions of ChatGPT are more likely to refuse to answer
certain survey questions, resulting in more invalid responses for particular
questions. In our experiments, the rate of invalid responses (averaged over
questions) is 4.21% (O: 2.79%, C: 3.13%, E: 4.44%, A: 8.77%, N: 1.92%)
24     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

for ChatGPT-4, and 11.17% (O: 4.44%, C: 29.81%, E: 1.75%, A: 17.35%, N:
2.48%) for ChatGPT-3. To accommodate the high invalid response rate for cer-
tain questions, we repeat each question multiple times (through independent
API calls) until we obtain 30 valid responses.

A.1.2 Behavioral Economics Games
In behavioral economics games, we adopt a standardized procedure for gener-
ating instances and collecting responses from the chatbots. For each chatbot
model, we generate 30 independent instances for each scenario by default,
unless otherwise specified. These games are described within the chat prompts,
accompanied by specific instructions, curated by two experts. The prompts of
each game are available in our released code repository.
    For example, in the Dictator Game, the chat prompt used was as fol-
lows: “Hi, let’s play a game. You are paired with another player.
Your role is to decide how to divide $100, and the other player
simply receives your choice. How would you like to divide the
money? Please give only one concrete choice and highlight the
amount you give to the other player in [] (such as [$x]).”
    The actions of a chatbot are extracted using regular expressions or the
gpt-3.5-turbo API from its responses. To ensure accuracy and reliability,
these responses undergo manual verification. As the invalid response rate is
generally low for game queries in Dictator, Ultimatum, and Trust (1.33%
for ChatGPT-4 and 12.67% for ChatGPT-3), we do not substitute invalid
responses with additional API calls. For other games, we repeat each ques-
tion multiple times (through independent API calls) until we obtain enough
valid responses (30 for Public Goods, 80 for Bomb Risk, and 90 for Prisoner’s
Dilemma). Note that in the simulated games, the payoffs are fictitious and no
real payments are made to the AI.

A.1.3 Framing and Context
One objective of our research is to investigate the steerability of chatbot mod-
els. To accomplish this, we modify both the chat prompts and system prompts
and assess whether the models’ behaviors exhibit any noticeable changes.

Witnesses and explanation requirement.
Our approach involves steering chatbot models through the imposition of wit-
nesses and the requirement of explanations for their choices. Specifically, when
addressing the Dictator Game scenario with a non-paired player, we introduce
explicit information within the chat prompt, stating, “The game host hands
you $100. ” Additionally, we prompt the models to provide explanations for
their choices by incorporating the phrase, “Please explain your choice.”
       A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                  25

Gender.
We further explore the influence of gender on the AIs’ decision-making pro-
cesses. To examine this, we specifically address the Dictator Game and the
Ultimatum Game scenarios. In the chat prompt, we explicitly state, “You are
paired with a male/female player.”

Occupation specification.
In our final investigation, we focus on studying the impact of specifying the
occupation of chatbot models on their behaviors. To achieve this, we obtain
occupation descriptions from the O*NET Database10 . For each occupation,
we include the occupation title, core tasks, and supplemental tasks within the
system prompts. For example,

You are a mathematician.
Your core tasks include:
* Address the relationships of quantities, ...
* Disseminate research by writing reports, ...
* Maintain knowledge in the field by ...
...
Your supplemental tasks include:
* Design, analyze, and decipher encryption systems ...

    The specific occupations we consider for our study encompass a range of
professional roles, including mathematician, public relations specialist, jour-
nalist, investment fund manager, game theorist, teacher, and legislator. These
occupations are particularly relevant as they have been identified as being
highly exposed to large language models in a recent study conducted by
OpenAI [6].

A.2 Human Data
A.2.1 OCEAN Big Five Test
In our study, we utilize a publicly available database called the OCEAN Five
Factor Personality Test Responses11 . The data was sourced from the Open-
Source Psychometrics Project https://openpsychometrics.org/, a nonprofit
initiative aimed at both educating the public about psychology and collecting
data for psychological research purposes.
    This database contains questions, answers, and metadata collected from a
total of 19,719 tests. The subjects cover a wide range of demographic charac-
teristics. The dataset comprises individuals from over 11 different races and
161 countries and regions, ensuring a diverse representation within the sample.
Additionally, the age range of the participants spans from 13 years and above,

  10
    O*NET Database: https://www.onetcenter.org/database.html, retrieved 03/2023.
  11
    OCEAN Five Factor Personality Test Responses dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/
lucasgreenwell/ocean-five-factor-personality-test-responses, retrieved 03/2023.
26            A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?
                                                                        10000      8753




                                                                                                1531 1464
                                                                                                            974 924
                                                                         1000                                         649

             19%                                                                                                            277 247
                                                                                                                                    222 191
                                                                                                                                            179 175 172 169 157
                                                                                                                                                                147 135 133 133 129



                                                        # of subjects
                              Caucasian (European)                        100
     3%                       South East Asian
     7%                       Caucasian (Indian)
                        54%
                              Mixed Race                                   10

       8%                     Caucasian (Middle East)
                              Other
             9%                                                             1
                                                                                    US          GB   IN     AU   CA   PH    IT   MY   PK   DE   ZA   BR    ID   SE   NZ   NO   RO   SG   NL   FR


                                                         (b) Respondent distribution over countries and
(a) Respondent distribution over races.                  regions. Only the top 20 are shown, covering
                                                         99.9% of the data.


                                                                                                4000
                   0%

                                                                                                3000


                                                                                # of subjects
                        39%
                              Male
                              Female                                                            2000
                              Other
       61%
                                                                                                1000


                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                          10          20         30         40            50         60        70        80
                                                                                                                                                 Age

                                                                                (d) Respondent distribution over ages.
  (c) Respondent distribution                                                   Only ages under 80 are shown, covering
  over genders.                                                                 99.6% of the data.

Fig. 7: Demographics of human respondents to the BigFive test. Category labels
are extracted from the metadata in the codebook of the original dataset.


encompassing a broad spectrum of age groups. Regarding gender identification,
participants self-identified as male, female, or other, acknowledging the impor-
tance of recognizing diverse gender identities. Fig. 7 shows the distribution of
demographics of the Big Five human responses data.

A.2.2 Behavioral Economics Games
The dataset under analysis comprises behavioral economic game data garnered
via the MobLab Classroom platform12 over an nine-year period from 2015 to
2023. This compendium of human behavioral data includes observations from
88,595 subjects, and 15,236 sessions, exhibiting a considerable geographical
diversity, spanning 59 countries, and multiple continents. Participants are from
nations and regions that encapsulate an array of socio-economic and cultural
contexts, extending from the United States and Canada in North America,
through Europe from Poland to the United Kingdom, and in Asia including
China and Singapore. Fig. 8 shows the distribution of demographics of the
MobLab data in terms of game sessions. Interested readers may refer to Lin et

  12
       MobLab Classroom: https://www.moblab.com/products/classroom, retrieved 04/2023.
                           A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27
                    4000


                                                                      3442


                                                                                                               10000 8687
                    3000


                                                               2443                                                                   1472 1209
                                                                             2187




# of play records
                                                                                                               1000                                     577
                                                        1994




                                                                                           # of play records
                    2000
                                                 1791                                                                                                           243
                                          1709
                                                                                                                                                                                 155 148 141 136 136 133
                                                                                                                                                                                                         111 104                                                        97       96       90       74
                                                                                                                100                                                                                                                                                                                            64
                                   1201                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      38
                    1000

                                                                                                                 10
                           227                                                      242

                       0

                            2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022   2023
                                                                                                                  1



                                                                                                                                                                                             Germany
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Guatemala                                                                                                        Switzerland
                                                                                                                                               Poland                                                                                                                                     France                                      Austria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Italy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Australia
                                                                                                                                                        China


                                                                                                                                                                United Kingdom
                                                                                                                      United States
                                                                                                                                                                                 Singapore                                    Hong Kong
                                                                                                                                      Canada                                                                                                                                                                   Cyprus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Colombia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taiwan   Norway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Netherlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Japan




                                                                                             (b) Player record distribution over countries and
  (a) Player record distribution                                                             regions. Only the top 20 are shown, covering 97.9%
  over years.                                                                                data.

  Fig. 8: Demographics of human players participating in MobLab behavioral
  economics games.


  al. [13] for more details about the demographics of the participants of MobLab
  games and variations across demographical groups.
28        A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

B Further Analysis
B.1 Payoffs
ChatGPT’s decisions are consistent with some forms of altruism, fairness,
empathy, and reciprocity rather than maximization of its own payoff. To
explore this in more detail, we calculate the payoff of the chatbots, the payoff of
their (human) partner, and the combined payoff for both players in each game.
These calculations are based on ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3’s strategies when
paired with a player randomly drawn from the distribution of human players.
Similarly, we calculate the expected payoff of the human players when ran-
domly paired with another human player. The results are presented in Table
1.


Table 1: ChatGPT-4’s strategies yield higher partner payoffs and higher combined
payoffs compared to human players in all games where the payoff is not constant.
ChatGPT-3 is the most cooperative among the three in the Public Goods game
and the most altruistic in two games (Public Goods game and Trust game as the
banker). Expected payoffs are calculated by sampling the partner’s action from the
human player distribution. The grey numbers after the “±” symbols are the
standard errors based on 30 samples.
     Game         Player     Selfish (own) payoff   Selfless (partner) payoff   Combined Payoff
                  Human           $74.14 ± 0.19            $25.68 ± 0.19             $100.00
     Dictator    ChatGPT-4        $50.00 ± 0.00            $50.00 ± 0.00             $100.00
                 ChatGPT-3        $64.83 ± 2.47            $35.17 ± 2.47             $100.00
                  Human           $33.51 ± 0.16            $35.19 ± 0.30           $68.70 ± 0.36
 Ultimatum -
                 ChatGPT-4        $45.98 ± 0.00            $45.98 ± 0.00           $91.96 ± 0.00
  Proposer
                 ChatGPT-3        $35.10 ± 0.90            $32.79 ± 3.29           $67.89 ± 3.49
                  Human           $35.19 ± 0.13            $33.51 ± 0.20           $68.70 ± 0.32
 Ultimatum -
                 ChatGPT-4        $37.60 ± 1.46            $39.60 ± 2.96           $77.20 ± 4.41
  Responder
                 ChatGPT-3        $38.26 ± 1.40            $36.75 ± 2.40           $75.00 ± 4.41
                  Human          $111.33 ± 0.11            $76.03 ± 0.38          $187.36 ± 0.48
      Trust -
                 ChatGPT-4       $108.01 ± 0.48            $84.13 ± 2.09          $192.14 ± 2.54
     Investor
                 ChatGPT-3       $104.63 ± 0.84            $68.04 ± 3.77          $172.67 ± 4.57
                  Human           $90.79 ± 0.97           $109.21 ± 0.97             $200.00
     Trust -
                 ChatGPT-4        $60.83 ± 2.26           $139.17 ± 2.26             $200.00
     Banker∗
                 ChatGPT-3        $37.50 ± 5.99           $162.50 ± 5.99             $200.00
                  Human            $9.04 ± 0.02              $9.04 ± 0.02          $36.15 ± 0.04
 Public Goods    ChatGPT-4         $8.39 ± 0.05              $9.69 ± 0.05          $37.45 ± 0.10
                 ChatGPT-3         $7.97 ± 0.13            $10.10 ± 0.13           $38.28 ± 0.27
                  Human          $345.12 ± 0.53           $345.12 ± 0.70          $690.24 ± 0.18
    Prisoner’s
                 ChatGPT-4       $205.48 ±10.70           $531.31 ±14.27          $736.79 ± 3.57
    Dilemma†
                 ChatGPT-3       $250.48 ±16.38           $471.31 ±21.84          $721.79 ± 5.46

∗
   : To be comparable, the Trust-Banker calculations are done assuming that
                        the original investment is $50.
†
  : The Prisoner’s Dilemma reports the payoffs in the first round of the game.


   Table 1 shows that ChatGPT-4 outperforms human players in terms of
expected own payoff only in the Ultimatum Game, and a lower own payoff in
the other games involving trust or cooperation. However, in all seven game
scenarios, it obtains a higher expected payoff for its partner. Moreover, it
      A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                          29

achieves a higher combined payoff for both players in five out of seven games,
the exception being the Dictator game and the Trust game as the banker
(where the combined payoff is constant).
    These findings are consistent with an increased level of altruism and
cooperation compared to the human player distribution. On the other hand,
ChatGPT-3 obtains payoffs that are closer to humans in the Dictator game,
the Ultimatum Game as the proposer, and Prisoner’s Dilemma. And, although
it yields a lower own payoff in the Trust games and the Public Goods game
compared to ChatGPT-4, it achieves an even higher partner payoff and com-
bined payoff in the Public Goods game and a higher partner payoff as the
banker in the Trust game.

B.2 Optimization Objective
The findings presented above indicate that the strategic outputs of ChatGPT-
4 and ChatGPT-3 models tend to yield higher partner payoffs compared
to human players, with ChatGPT-4 frequently attaining the highest com-
bined payoff. This subsection is dedicated to a systematic exploration of the
preferences that best predict behavior.
    Discerning the intrinsic objectives of models can be challenging when
solely examining their training methodologies. Taking ChatGPT-4 [36] as an
example, which serves as the backbone of ChatGPT-4, it is a Transformer-
style model initially pre-trained to forecast the subsequent token in a given
document. This pre-training phase leverages publicly accessible data such as
internet-sourced information. In this stage, the primary objective function is
essentially to maximize the likelihood of a word’s occurrence when provided
with the preceding words for each sentence or document within the training
data. Subsequently, the model undergoes a fine-tuning process using Rein-
forcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) [37]. The fine-tuning tasks
employed encompass natural language processing activities such as text gener-
ation, question answering, dialog generation, summarization, and information
extraction. The process involves presenting demonstration responses and hav-
ing human evaluators rank the outputs from best to worst. With RLHF,
OpenAI may also add restrictions regarding safety considerations13 . Notably,
these tasks and the safety policies do not inherently align with decision-making
tasks, and this approach does not directly translate into a well-defined objec-
tive function for behavioral games. To the best of our knowledge, there is
no evidence that either ChatGPT-3 or ChatGPT-4 was fine-tuned to behave
in specific directions in the tests included in our study. Hence, we rely on
observations of models’ behaviors to understand their objective.
    In the context of behavioral games, where the player is presumed to opti-
mize a blend of selfish and partner payoffs, the optimization objective function
can be formulated as a constant elasticity of substitution (CES) utility function

 13
      OpenAI usage policies: https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies, retrieved 03/2023.
30                               A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

[23]:

                                                                                                                                                                  (1/r)
                                                                                  Ub = [b · S r + (1 − b) · P r ]                                                         ,                                                                         (1)

where Ub denots the utility function, S is the player’s selfish (own) payoff,
P is the selfless (partner) payoff, b ∈ [0, 1] is the weight, and r is the CES
parameter.
    The selfish and selfless expected payoff curves are plotted in Fig. 9, which
also contains examples of the expected utility function when b = 1/2 for two
CES specifications (the linear specification with r = 1 and the non-linear
specification with r = 1/2). These are the expected utilities against the dis-
tribution of play from the human partner distribution, as a function of the
strategy played.

                      100                                                                                   100       Selfish payoff (b=1)                                                                                          Selfish payoff (b=1)
                                                                                                                      Selfless payoff (b=0)                                                     50                                  Selfless payoff (b=0)
                                                                                                                      Utility (b=1/2, r=1)                                                                                          Utility (b=1/2, r=1)
                       80                                                                                    80                                                                                                                     Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)
                                                                                                                      Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)                                                    40



Expected payoff ($)                                                                   Expected payoff ($)                                                                 Expected payoff ($)
                       60                                                                                    60
                                                                                                                                                                                                30
                       40                                                                                    40                                                                                 20
                                              Selfish payoff (b=1)
                       20                     Selfless payoff (b=0)                                          20                                                                                 10
                                              Utility (b=1/2, r=1)
                        0                     Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)                                          0                                                                                  0
                            0      20         40         60            80   100                                   0      20           40        60         80    100                                 0   20           40         60            80      100
                                          Propose to give ($)                                                                   Propose to give ($)                                                               Respond to accept ($)

(a) Dictator                                                                          (b) Ultimatum - Proposer                                                            (c) Ultimatum - Responder



                                                                                                            200       Selfish payoff (b=1)
                      300                                                                                   175       Selfless payoff (b=0)
                                Selfish payoff (b=1)                                                                  Utility (b=1/2, r=1)                                                      14
                                Selfless payoff (b=0)                                                       150       Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)
                      250



                                                                                      Expected payoff ($)
                                Utility (b=1/2, r=1)                                                                                                                                            12
                                Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)                                                      125




Expected payoff ($)                                                                                                                                                       Expected payoff ($)
                      200
                                                                                                            100                                                                                 10
                      150                                                                                    75
                                                                                                             50                                                                                  8
                      100
                                                                                                             25                                                                                                       Selfish payoff (b=1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6                    Selfless payoff (b=0)
                       50
                                                                                                              0                                                                                                       Utility (b=1/2, r=1)
                                                                                                                  0    25        50        75        100   125   150                             4                    Utility (b=1/2, r=1/2)
                        0
                                                                                                                                      $ to return
                            0      20         40         60            80   100                                                                                                                      0        5             10            15            20
                                               $ to invest                                                                                                                                                           $ to contribute
                                                                                      (e) Trust - Banker (with $50
(d) Trust - Investor                                                                  invested)                                                                           (f ) Public Goods

Fig. 9: Expected selfish (own) payoff (red lines) and selfless (partner) payoff (green
lines) of every single action with a randomly sampled human partner. Blue and
yellow lines show the weighted expected utility function examples as defined in Eq.
1. When r = 1 and b = 1/2 (blue lines), the utility function becomes the overall
welfare (average payoff). Weighted utility functions for other values of b can be
obtained similarly.



   For every game and parameter value b (0 ≤ b ≤ 1) for the utility function,
we can calculate the mean square error (MSE) for any given action compared
                                           A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31

to the best response as
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                1 X      Ub (k)
                                                                                                                                                   MSEb =                                             1−           ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                               |O|        Ub∗
                                                                                                                                                                                                              k∈O

where O is the set of observations, k is an action choice from the observation
(e.g., give $50 in the Dictator game), Ub (k) is the expected utility from action
k calculated with the expected selfish payoff S(k) and the partner payoff P (k),
and Ub∗ is the theoretical maximum utility from the best response (i.e., based
on Fig. 9).
     The results are shown in Fig. 10 (linear CES utility specification with r = 1)
and Fig. 11 (non-linear CES specification with r = 1/2).
     For the linear specification and most of the games except for Ultima-
tum, human players and ChatGPTs achieve their lowest optimization MSE at
around b = 1/2. We also note that ChatGPTs tend to have smaller optimiza-
tion errors compared to humans when b ≤ 0.5, showing higher optimization
efficiency when the objective is less selfish.

                             0.35    0.34                                                                                                         0.60
                                                                                           Human                                            0.6                                                      Human                                                                                                                     Human                                             0.25   0.23                                       Human
                                                                                           ChatGPT-4                                                                                                 ChatGPT-4                                        0.5     0.48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.47                                                             ChatGPT-4                                                     0.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ChatGPT-4
                             0.30            0.28                                                                                           0.5          0.47                                        ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                 ChatGPT-3                                                          0.20
                                                                                           ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ChatGPT-3




                                                                                                               Optimization squared error                                                                                Optimization squared error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.43




Optimization squared error                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Optimization squared error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.20                  0.19
                                     0.25                                                                                                         0.44
                             0.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4                       0.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.37                                                                                                    0.17                0.17
                                             0.21 0.22                                                  0.21
                                                                                                        0.21
                                                                                                                                            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.16 0.16                0.16
                                                                                                                                                         0.35 0.34                                                                                                                       0.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.31                                                                                                0.14 0.15                0.15
                             0.20    0.18                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3     0.29                                                                                                               0.15             0.13 0.13                0.13
                                                    0.17                                         0.16 0.17
                                                                                                 0.16                                       0.3                                                                                                                        0.24                      0.25                                                                                                  0.12 0.12                0.12
                                             0.15          0.15                                                                                   0.25          0.25                                              0.25                                                                           0.23                                                                                                       0.11 0.11                0.11
                             0.15                          0.13                                  0.13                                                    0.20          0.20                                0.20                                       0.2                       0.18                                                                                                                             0.09 0.10 0.09           0.09
                                                    0.12                                  0.12
                                                                                          0.11                                              0.2                                                                                                                                                       0.18                                                                       0.10                                 0.08
                                                                                                                                                                0.14 0.14                           0.14      0.14                                                                                    0.14 0.14 0.14 0.13 0.14 0.15                                                                                        0.07 0.08 0.07
                             0.10                          0.08 0.09
                                                                0.08               0.08
                                                                                          0.09
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.11 0.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.12                                                                                                                                   0.06
                                                                                   0.06                                                                                                        0.08 0.08 0.09                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.10 0.09                                                                                                                 0.05 0.06
                                                                  0.05 0.05 0.04
                                                                            0.05
                                                                                   0.06                                                     0.1                        0.08 0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.06                                                                                         0.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.08 0.07 0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.05                                                     0.04
                                                                                                                                                                            0.05               0.05
                             0.05                                      0.03 0.03                                                                                            0.03        0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.04
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00 0.01                                                                                                             0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                       0.0
                                     0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                  0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                               0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
                                                                          b                                                                                                        b                                                                                                                     b                                                                                                          b


(a) Average                                                                                                    (b) Dictator                                                                                              (c) Ultimatum -                                                                                                            (d) Ultimatum -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Proposer                                                                                                                   Responder



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.200                                                                                                                      0.40
                             0.6    0.59
                                    0.59                                                   Human                                            0.7            Human                                                                                                0.18                                                                                                                             Human                                          0.36
                                                                                           ChatGPT-4                                                       ChatGPT-4                                                                                                                                     Human                               0.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.59                                0.175                                              ChatGPT-4                           0.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.35            ChatGPT-4
                                            0.53                                           ChatGPT-3                                        0.6            ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ChatGPT-3




Optimization squared error                                                                                     Optimization squared error
                                    0.51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                              0.30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Optimization squared error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Optimization squared error
                             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.150              0.14                                                                                                    0.30   0.28
                                            0.45 0.46                                                                                       0.5                                                                                                                                                                                       0.13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.125     0.11                                                                  0.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.25          0.22
                             0.4                    0.38 0.38                                                                               0.4                                                                   0.36                                          0.10                                                                                                                                                                     0.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.100              0.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.08                                              0.20                                                           0.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.28                                                                                                                       0.08                                                                   0.16
                                                           0.31
                                                                  0.29
                                                                                                                                            0.3                                                            0.26                                                          0.07                                                  0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.15                                             0.13
                             0.3                                                                                                                  0.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.22                                0.075                       0.06                                                                                                  0.12                                      0.11 0.12
                                                                                                                                                         0.19                                                                                                                     0.05 0.05                                                                                                                  0.10
                                                                  0.22                            0.22
                                                                                                                                            0.2                                              0.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.17 0.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.04                                                     0.10          0.09
                                                                         0.20           0.20 0.21 0.20                                                          0.14                                                                                                                      0.03                                                                                                        0.07                        0.07
                                                                                             0.19 0.19                                                                                                                                                                                    0.03
                             0.2                                         0.19 0.18 0.19
                                                                                   0.18 0.18
                                                                                        0.17                                                0.1   0.10
                                                                                                                                                       0.08      0.08                        0.09 0.11                                                                                            0.02                                                                                  0.04 0.03      0.04 0.05           0.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.04
                                                                                   0.15                                                           0.05 0.04 0.05                        0.04 0.06                                                     0.025                                       0.01           0.01                                                            0.05             0.02 0.01 0.02           0.02
                                                                         0.13 0.14                                                                          0.03 0.03
                                                                                                                                                                 0.02 0.03
                                                                                                                                                                      0.01 0.00         0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.02                                                                                                              0.00                                                                                              0.01 0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00 0.00
                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                       0.000                                                                                                                      0.00
                             0.1
                                    0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                   0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                   0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                             0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
                                                                         b                                                                                                         b                                                                                                                       b                                                                                                        b


(e) Trust - Investor                                                                                           (f ) Trust - Banker                                                                                       (g) Public Goods                                                                                                           (h) Prisoner’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dilemma

Fig. 10: Mean squared error of the actual distribution of play relative to the
best-response payoff, when matched with a partner playing the human distribution.
The average is across all games. The errors are reported for each possible b, which
is the weight on own vs partner payoff in the utility function (linear blend, with
CES specification r = 1). b = 1 is the purely selfish (own) payoff, b = 0 is the purely
selfless (partner) payoff, and b = 1/2 is the overall welfare (average) payoff. The
values of mean square errors are annotated in the plots.


   Beyond the revealed preference analysis above, we also estimate the
parameter b for each game and model, positing a logistic multinomial model
32                                                         A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?
                             0.35    0.34
                                                                                                                                      0.6
                                                                                                                                            0.60                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.25   0.23
                                                                                         Human                                                                                                       Human                                                                                                              Human                                                         0.22                                 Human
                                                                                         ChatGPT-4                                                 0.51                                              ChatGPT-4                                        0.5     0.48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.47                                                      ChatGPT-4                                                          0.20                            ChatGPT-4
                             0.30            0.28                                                                                     0.5                                                            ChatGPT-3                                                                                                          ChatGPT-3                                                               0.19
                                                                                         ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.20                                             ChatGPT-3




Optimization squared error                                                                               Optimization squared error                                                                                      Optimization squared error                                                                                          Optimization squared error
                                     0.25                                                                                                   0.44                                                                                                                       0.39                                                                                                                          0.18
                             0.25                                                                                                                         0.40                                                                                        0.4                                                                                                                        0.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.16 0.16                0.16
                                                    0.21                                          0.21
                                                                                                  0.21
                                                                                                                                      0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.14 0.15                0.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.32
                             0.20
                                             0.20
                                                                                                                                                   0.31                                                                                                       0.29              0.30                                                                                      0.15             0.13 0.13                0.13
                                     0.18                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                                                                                                                            0.12                0.12
                                                                                             0.17 0.17
                                                                                             0.15
                                                                                                                                      0.3                        0.28                                                                                                                    0.25                                                                                                   0.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.11 0.11                0.11
                                                                                                                                            0.25                                                                  0.25
                                                    0.14 0.15                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.21                                                                                                      0.09 0.10 0.09
                             0.15            0.13                                       0.12 0.13                                                                                                                                                     0.2              0.19                          0.18 0.17                                                            0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.09
                                                                                                                                      0.2                 0.19                                                                                                                                  0.17           0.17 0.16 0.15                                                                                  0.08
                                                           0.10 0.10                    0.10
                                                                                        0.09                                                       0.15                 0.16                             0.15 0.14                                                                                                            0.15                                                                                  0.07 0.08 0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.13
                             0.10                   0.08                         0.08                                                                                                                         0.11                                                              0.10                      0.11 0.09                                                                                                      0.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.05 0.06
                                                           0.05
                                                                  0.07 0.06 0.06 0.07
                                                                       0.05 0.05 0.06                                                 0.1                 0.07 0.08            0.08                      0.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.07 0.07                                         0.1                                                           0.08 0.07 0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.05                                                     0.04
                             0.05                                 0.03 0.03 0.03                                                                                                0.03                0.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.03                                                                                 0.04
                                                                                                                                                                 0.02 0.02
                                                                                                                                                                      0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.01                                                                                                       0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                             0.0
                                     0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                            0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                       0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                        0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
                                                                          b                                                                                                     b                                                                                                                     b                                                                                                      b


(a) Average                                                                                              (b) Dictator                                                                                                    (c) Ultimatum -                                                                                                     (d) Ultimatum -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Proposer                                                                                                            Responder



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.200                                                                                                               0.40
                             0.6    0.59
                                    0.59                                                 Human                                        0.7            Human                                                                                                      0.18                                                                                                                      Human                                          0.36
                                                                                         ChatGPT-4                                                   ChatGPT-4                                                                                                                                       Human                            0.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.59                                0.175                                          ChatGPT-4                        0.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.35            ChatGPT-4
                                    0.51 0.51                                            ChatGPT-3                                    0.6            ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ChatGPT-3




Optimization squared error                                                                               Optimization squared error
                                         0.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ChatGPT-3                                                                                                                           0.30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Optimization squared error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Optimization squared error
                             0.5                                                                                                                                                                           0.51                                       0.150                                                                                                               0.30   0.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.13
                                                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                                                      0.12                                                                                               0.25
                                            0.41 0.43                                                                                                                                               0.41                                              0.125     0.11                                                           0.12                                       0.25          0.22
                                                 0.39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.21
                             0.4                                                                                                      0.4                                                                         0.36                                          0.10                                                           0.10
                                                           0.35                                                                                                                                                                                       0.100                                                                                                               0.20                                                           0.18
                                                                                                                                                                                             0.29                                                                                 0.08                                                                                                         0.16
                                                                                                                                      0.3                                                                                                                                0.07                                           0.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.07                                                                                               0.15
                                                    0.30 0.29 0.29                                                                                                                                         0.27
                             0.3                                                                                                            0.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.22                                0.075              0.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.06                                              0.15   0.12                                      0.13 0.12
                                                                         0.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.10
                                                                  0.23      0.22 0.21           0.22
                                                                                                                                      0.2          0.16                               0.17          0.18 0.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.050                       0.04                           0.04                                                     0.10          0.09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.03 0.04                                                                                                                                0.07
                                                           0.20        0.20           0.20 0.21
                                                                                           0.20 0.20
                                                                                                0.19                                                                                                0.12                                                                                                         0.03                                                                          0.07                 0.06
                             0.2                                            0.18 0.19 0.17 0.18                                             0.10      0.09                     0.09                                                                                                                              0.02                                                                           0.04 0.05           0.05
                                                                  0.15                                                                0.1   0.05 0.05
                                                                                                                                                                     0.08      0.07                                                                   0.025                               0.01 0.01      0.01                                                             0.05   0.04 0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.02 0.02 0.02           0.03
                                                                       0.13 0.13 0.15                                                            0.02 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.03                                                                                                                           0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00 0.00 0.00                                                                                        0.01 0.01 0.01
                                                                                                                                                           0.00 0.01
                                                                                                                                                           0.01 0.00 0.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00 0.00
                             0.1                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                             0.000                                                                                                               0.00
                                    0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                             0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                         0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0                                                                      0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
                                                                          b                                                                                                     b                                                                                                                      b                                                                                                     b


(e) Trust - Investor                                                                                     (f ) Trust - Banker                                                                                             (g) Public Goods                                                                                                    (h) Prisoner’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dilemma

Fig. 11: Mean squared error of the actual distribution of play relative to the best-
response payoff, when matched with a partner playing the human distribution. The
average is across all games. The errors are reported for each possible b, which is the
weight on own vs partner payoff in the utility function (non-linear blend, with CES
specification r = 1/2). b = 1 is the purely selfish (own) payoff, and b = 0 is the purely
selfless (partner) payoff. The values of mean square errors are annotated in the plots.


framework (as in McFadden’s discrete choice problem [38]). We only do this
for the linear utility specification, as that is the usual multinomial logit
formulation.
    According to this framework, actions are sampled in accordance with the
following probability distribution:

                                                                                                                                                                          exp(Ub (k))
                                                                                                                                                                 Pr(k) = P              ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)
                                                                                                                                                                            exp(Ub (j))
                                                                                                                                                                                                           j≤K


where K is the number of possible action choices.
   The estimation results are presented in Table 2, which are well aligned with
those in Fig. 10. For many games, including Dictator, Trust - Banker, Public
Goods (for only ChatGPT-3), and Prisoner’s Dilemma, the estimated b values
from ChatGPTs are significantly smaller than humans, indicating ChatGPTs
behave as if they were less selfish behavioral than humans.

B.3 Framing
Similar to humans, ChatGPT’s decisions can be significantly influenced by
changes in the framing or context of the same strategic setting. A request for
an explanation of its decision, or asking them to act as if they come from some
        A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                                                       33

Table 2: Estimation of the weight b by multinomial logit discrete choice analysis.
Green highlights the cases when the estimated b for ChatGPT models is
significantly smaller (less weight on own payoff) than the estimate for humans.
                                       With CES specification r = 1                      With CES specification r = 1/2
     Game         Player
                             Estimated b Standard error Confidence interval    Estimated b Standard error Confidence interval
                  Human          0.517        0.000           (0.516, 0.517)       0.658        0.000            (0.657, 0.659)
    Dictator     ChatGPT-4       0.500        0.003           (0.494, 0.506)       0.500        0.009            (0.482, 0.518)
                 ChatGPT-3       0.509        0.003           (0.502, 0.516)       0.582        0.010            (0.563, 0.601)
                  Human          1.000        0.005           (0.989, 1.011)       1.000        0.005             (0.990, 1.01)
 Ultimatum -
                 ChatGPT-4       1.000        0.076           (0.851, 1.149)       1.000        0.079            (0.845, 1.155)
  Proposer
                 ChatGPT-3       1.000        0.076           (0.851, 1.149)       1.000        0.211            (0.587, 1.413)
                  Human          1.000        0.005           (0.990, 1.010)       1.000        0.006            (0.989, 1.011)
 Ultimatum -
                 ChatGPT-4       1.000        0.070           (0.862, 1.138)       1.000        0.079            (0.845, 1.155)
  Responder
                 ChatGPT-3       1.000        0.070           (0.862, 1.138)       1.000        0.077            (0.849, 1.151)
                  Human          0.535        0.000           (0.535, 0.535)       0.570        0.000            (0.569, 0.570)
     Trust -
                 ChatGPT-4       0.532        0.003           (0.526, 0.538)       0.566        0.003            (0.559, 0.572)
    Investor
                 ChatGPT-3       0.535        0.003           (0.529, 0.541)       0.569        0.003            (0.564, 0.575)
                  Human          0.504        0.000           (0.504, 0.505)       0.475        0.001            (0.473, 0.477)
    Trust -
                 ChatGPT-4       0.496        0.002           (0.492, 0.500)       0.395        0.007            (0.382, 0.408)
    Banker∗
                 ChatGPT-3       0.488        0.003           (0.482, 0.495)       0.300        0.009            (0.283, 0.318)
                  Human          0.526        0.001           (0.524, 0.528)       0.518        0.001            (0.516, 0.521)
Public Goods     ChatGPT-4       0.491        0.021           (0.449, 0.533)       0.475        0.023            (0.430, 0.521)
                 ChatGPT-3       0.468        0.022           (0.426, 0.510)       0.448        0.023            (0.402, 0.494)
                  Human          0.572        0.000           (0.572, 0.572)       0.563        0.000            (0.563, 0.563)
    Prisoner’s
                 ChatGPT-4       0.568        0.001           (0.567, 0.569)       0.560        0.001            (0.558, 0.561)
    Dilemma†
                 ChatGPT-3       0.570        0.000           (0.569, 0.571)       0.561        0.000            (0.560, 0.562)


∗
   : To be comparable, the Trust-Banker calculations are done assuming that
                        the original investment is $50.
 †
   : The Prisoner’s Dilemma reports the estimation results in the first round
                                 of the game.

specific occupation can have an impact. Fig. 12 presents selected examples
of how different framings or contexts influence ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3’s
behavior. Refer to Section C for detailed results.

B.4 Learning
In games with multiple roles, both ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 change
their behavior once they have experienced another role in the game. When
ChatGPT-3 has previously acted as the responder in the Ultimatum game,
it tends to propose a higher offer when it later takes the proposer role, while
ChatGPT-4’s proposal remains unchanged whether or not it has been a respon-
der (Fig. 13a ). When ChatGPT-4 has previously played the proposer, it tends
to be willing to accept a smaller split as the responder (Fig. 13b). Being
exposed to the banker’s role in the Trust game influences ChatGPT-4 and
ChatGPT-3’s subsequent decisions as the investor, leading them to invest more
(Fig. 13c). The distributions of their decisions become narrower. Having played
the investor first also influences both chatbots’ subsequent decisions as the
banker, leading them to return more to the investor (Fig. 13d). Returning the
principal plus half the profit becomes the single mode of ChatGPT-4’s deci-
sion, while ChatGPT-3’s decision is even more generous, returning more than
2/3 of the profit to the investor. Refer to Section C for detailed results.
34               A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

                                                                                                                                         Mathematician
                           ChatGPT-3                                             ChatGPT-4                              0.08
                                                                 0.04
          0.04                                                                                                          0.05
Density                                                Density   0.02
                                                                                                              Density
          0.02                                                                                                          0.03

          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                      ChatGPT-3 (witnessed)                             ChatGPT-4 (paired with male)                                Public relations specialist
                                                                                                                        0.04
                                                                 0.04
          0.02
Density                                                Density   0.02                                         Density   0.02
          0.01

          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                 ChatGPT-3 (with explanation)                           ChatGPT-4 (paired with female)                                        Legislator
          0.03                                                                                                          0.04
                                                                 0.04

Density                                                Density                                                Density
          0.02
                                                                 0.02                                                   0.02
          0.01
          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                 10       30      50         70   90                    10      30     50       70       90                    10        30        50      70     90
                         Split offered ($)                              Minimum proposal to accept ($)                         Minimum proposal to accept ($)

(a) Dictator - Explanation                             (b) Ultimatum - response to                            (c) Ultimatum - as
required / Witnessed)                                  gendered proposers                                     Responder when prompted
                                                                                                              with different occupations
                                                                                                              (ChatGPT-4)



                                                                                $10 invested
                          $10 invested                           0.06                                                                     $10 invested

          0.02                                                   0.04
                                                       Density
                                                                                                                        0.04
Density   0.01                                                   0.02                                         Density   0.02

          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                          $50 invested                                          $50 invested                                              $50 invested
                                                                                                                        0.06
          0.02                                                   0.04
Density                                                Density                                                Density
                                                                                                                        0.04
          0.01                                                   0.02
                                                                                                                        0.02
          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                          $100 invested                                         $100 invested                                             $100 invested
          0.03                                                   0.08                                                   0.03

Density                                                Density                                                Density
          0.02                                                   0.05                                                   0.02
          0.01                                                   0.03                                                   0.01
          0.00                                                   0.00                                                   0.00
                 10       30      50         70   90                    10      30     50       70       90                    10        30        50      70     90
                 Return to investor (% revenue)                         Return to investor (% revenue)                         Return to investor (% revenue)

(d) Trust - Banker’s                                   (e) Trust - Banker’s strategy                          (f ) Trust - Banker’s strategy
strategy given different                               given different investment                             given different investment
investment sizes (human)                               sizes (ChatGPT-4)                                      sizes (ChatGPT-3)

Fig. 12: ChatGPT’s behavior as a function of the framing or context of the same
strategic setting. (a) In the Dictator game, ChatGPT-3 makes a more generous
split in the presence of a witness or when requested to explain its decision. (b) In
the Ultimatum game, ChatGPT-4 accepts a higher split when the gender of the
proposer is known (despite which gender). (c) When prompted to be a
mathematician, ChatGPT-4 demands a smaller split as the responder in the
Ultimatum game, and a larger and fairer split when prompted to be a public
relations specialist or a legislator. (d-f) In the Trust game, when the size of the
investment increases, ChatGPT-3 and humans tend to return a larger proportion as
the banker to the investor, while ChatGPT-4 tends to return a smaller proportion
when the investment increases to $100. Density is the normalized count such that
the total area of the histogram equals 1.
          A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                  35


Before:                                         Before:




 After:                                          After:




(a) Ultimatum: AI strategy as proposer          (b) Ultimatum: AI strategy as responder
before and after being responder.               before and after being proposer.




Before:                                         Before:




 After:                                          After:




(c) Trust: AI strategy as the investor before   (d) Trust: AI strategy as the banker before
and after being the banker.                     and after being the investor.

Fig. 13: ChatGPT’s behavior changes after being exposed to the other role in
two-role games. Both ChatGPT-4 and ChatGPT-3 accept a smaller proposal in the
Ultimatum game after being the proposer, make a larger investment in the Trust
game after being the banker, and return a larger proportion to the investor after
being the investor. ChatGPT-3 proposes a more generous split after being the
responder in the Ultimatum game.


C Detailed Results
C.1 OCEAN Big Five Test
We collect ChatGPT’s responses to the OCEAN Big Five personality tests.
We compare the five dimensions of personality traits of ChatGPT-3 and
ChatGPT-4 (averaged over 30 independent runs) with those collected from
human subjects. In particular, both models yield extraversion scores close to
the human median (ChatGPT-4 at 53.4th percentile and ChatGPT-3 at 49.4th
percentile of human distribution), agreeableness scores lower than the human
median (ChatGPT-4 at 32.4th percentile and ChatGPT-3 at 17.2th percentile
of human distribution), neuroticism scores moderately below human median
(ChatGPT-4 at 41.3th percentile and ChatGPT-3.5 at 45.4th percentile of
human distribution), and openness scores below human median (ChatGPT-4
at 37.9th percentile and ChatGPT-3 at 5.0th percentile of human distribution).
For conscientiousness scores, ChatGPT-4’s score is above the human median
(at 62.7th percentile of human distribution), while ChatGPT-3 is slightly lower
than the median (at 47.1th percentile of human distribution).
36     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

C.2 The Dictator Game
The Dictator Game involves two participants: one player, the “dictator,” is
given a sum of money and can choose to share any portion with the other
player, who must accept whatever amount is offered. The game is often used
to explore altruistic behavior and deviations from pure self-interest [14, 15].
    In the game, ChatGPT is asked to decide how to split $100 between itself
and another player who unconditionally accepts the proposal. In 30 indepen-
dent sessions, ChatGPT-3’s decision follows a bell-shaped distribution peaked
at giving a moderate amount of $30 to the other player (min = 20, max = 80,
µ = 35.2, σ = 13.5). When explicitly requested to provide an explanation of
the decision, the distribution shifts rightward, with a new mode of splitting
evenly at $50 (min = 20, max = 80, µ = 46.2, σ = 15.5, p = 0.002, Wilcoxon
Rank-Sum Test unless otherwise specified) (Fig. 12a).
    Different from ChatGPT-3, when ChatGPT-4 is tested, it makes a consis-
tent decision of an even split ($50, Wilcoxon Ranked-Sum Test p ≪ 0.001).
The same behavior is observed for the Plus version (the paid Web-based ver-
sion). From the responses, some keywords that stand out include fair, equal,
and equally. Explicitly requesting an explanation does not shift ChatGPT-4’s
decision. The Free version (the unpaid Web-based version) behaves similarly to
ChatGPT-3, with a slightly less spread distribution peaked on $30 (min = 20,
max = 70, µ = 33.8, σ = 10.7, p = 0.785). Some notable keywords among the
responses are fair, reasonable, trust, and goals.
    When a witness/game host is present (see Section 1.A.1.3), ChatGPT-
3’s dictating decision becomes significantly more generous (mode =
30 and 40, min = 20, max = 70, µ = 41.7, σ = 14.9, p = 0.046) even though
the host has no interference in the game outcome. The presence of the game
host does not have an impact on ChatGPT-4’s decision.
    The “system” role is an instruction that sets a global context for all the
prompts of ChatGPT in the same session. The default system role of ChatGPT
is “a helpful assistant.” When the system role is set into particular occupa-
tions (those considered to have a high exposure of ChatGPT in their workflow
according to [6], there is a shift of ChatGPT-3’s response to the dictator game.
In particular, when playing the roles of a public relation specialist, a journalist,
or an investment fund manager, ChatGPT-3’s tend to spare a more generous
portion to the other player (than as a helpful assistant). As a mathematician,
ChatGPT-3 tends to offer a smaller share to the other player. This indicates
that ChatGPT-3’s interpretation of what is “fair” or “reasonable” is affected
by the role it plays.
    Playing one of the above roles does not change the centralized decision of
ChatGPT-4.

C.3 The Ultimatum Game
In the Ultimatum Game, two participants split a sum of money (the ‘pie’):
one player, the “proposer,” makes an offer on how to split the pie, and the
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?              37

second player, the “responder,” can accept or reject this offer. If the responder
accepts, the pie is split as proposed, but if the responder rejects, neither player
receives anything. This game is often used to study fairness, social norms, and
negotiation behavior [14].
    In this game, ChatGPT is asked either to propose to divide $100 between
itself and a responder, or to respond to a proposal made by the other player.
The difference between the Ultimatum and the Dictator game is that the
responder no longer blindly accepts the proposal, and if they reject it, both
players will get $0 no matter what the original proposal was.
    When playing the proposer alone, ChatGPT-3’s proposal of the amount
given to the other player follows a distribution with mode $40 (min =
30, max = 70, µ = 45.2, σ = 12.1). Compared with the Dictator game,
ChatGPT-3 gives significantly more (p < 0.001) to the responder when the
other party’s decision jointly decides the outcome.
    When specifically requested to provide an explanation of the decision, Chat-
GPT’s decision does not present a significant shift. The most common decision
is still $40 (min = 30, max = 70, µ = 42.9, σ = 10.8, p = 0.54). Like in the
Dictator game, ChatGPT-4 makes a unanimous decision of an equal split ($50,
p = 0.001), similar to that of ChatGPT Plus, and ChatGPT Free’s behavior
is much more similar to that of ChatGPT-3 (mode = 40, min = 30, max =
70, µ = 47.3, σ = 16.8, p = 0.905).
    Different context also has an effect on ChatGPT’s decision. When asked to
explicitly explain the decision, ChatGPT-4 presents a slight variance in its deci-
sion (σ = 2.6). A similar variance is also observed when ChatGPT-4 is asked
to play different roles: as a mathematician or an investment fund manager, it
occasionally proposes a smaller split to the responder, and as a journalist, it
occasionally proposes a greater split to the responder (max = 100, σ = 9.5).
None of these variations is statistically significant. The impact of roles to
ChatGPT-3 is greater: the median of proposal decreases as a mathematician,
centralizes as a public relation specialist, and increases as an investment fund
manager.
    When ChatGPT is asked to play the responder, it is asked the lowest
amount that it is willing to accept. ChatGPT-3’s response still follows a bell-
shaped distribution, with a mode of $30 (µ = 32.5, σ = 14.7), a minimum of
$1, and a maximum of $50. The mode, mean, min, and max are all lower than
the statistics when it plays the proposer. A similar pattern is observed from
ChatGPT Free (µ = 30, σ = 11.9, p = 0.400).
    ChatGPT-4 presents a significantly different behavior, where the decisions
follow a two-mode distribution that concentrates on two sides ($1 and $50).
Requiring explanation does not change the two modes and only affects the
distribution of the middle range. ChatGPT Plus presents an even more extreme
trait, and in a dominating majority of sessions, it is willing to accept as low as
$1 as the responder (p ≪ 0.001). The choice of $1 aligns well with the rational
decision of the game. Indeed, some keywords that stand out from the responses
include nothing, better (than), and something.
38     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

    The context of different occupations also affects ChatGPT’s decision in this
game. As a mathematician, ChatGPT-4’s decision concentrates on the rational
choice ($1, p ≪ 0.001); as a public relation specialist, a journalist, an invest-
ment fund manager, or a legislator, its decision becomes less bipolarated, and
the median shifts towards the right (favoring fairness more than rationality),
although not statistically significant (Fig. 12c). Similar shifts are observed for
ChatGPT-3 when inquired in the context of corresponding occupations.
    The above experiment queries ChatGPT in independent sessions, so its
response to one question is not interfered by its decision or memory about the
other question. An interesting question is whether their exposure/response to
one question (corresponding to one role as proposer or responder) affects their
decision for a follow-up question that corresponds to the other role. We expose
ChatGPT to both roles in the same session, asking it to respond to one ques-
tion and then respond to the other question. We find that being exposed to
one scenario does influence ChatGPT-3’s and ChatGPT-4’s responses in the
other scenario, compared with the results obtained from independent sessions.
Having been the proposer first (Fig. 13b), the distribution of ChatGPT-3’s
response as the responder becomes narrower, with the $50 group shifting left
towards $40. A similar shift presents in ChatGPT-4’s response, where the $50
group moves towards $20 and the median has reduced to $15 (p ≪ 0.001).
Having been the responder first (Fig. 13a), ChatGPT-3’s response as the pro-
poser also becomes more generous, while ChatGPT-4’s unanimous decision is
not affected.

C.4 The Trust Game
The Trust Game is a two-player game that investigates trust and reciprocity.
In this game, the first player (the investor– the trustor) is given a sum of money
and can invest any amount in the second player (the banker– the trustee).
The amount sent is multiplied by the game host, and the banker then decides
how much, if any, to return to the investor. This game is used to study trust,
reciprocity, and social norms [16].
    In the game, ChatGPT is also asked to play one of two roles: as an investor
or as a banker. As an investor, it is asked to decide how much (from $0 to $100)
to invest in the banker (which is expected to generate a profit), who may return
the entire revenue or nothing to the investor. ChatGPT-3’s decision follows a
distribution that peaks at a moderate value of $30 (min = 20, max = 60, µ =
36.3, σ = 12.7). When explicitly asked to explain the decision, its decision does
not present a significant shift but shows a wider spread (min = 20, max =
100, σ = 16.0, p = 0.439). Different occupation roles also show an effect, where
ChatGPT-3 makes a larger investment as a mathematician, a public relation
specialist, or a journalist.
    ChatGPT-4 acts as if it has significantly more trust in the banker (p =
0.006). Its decision follows a distribution peaked at investing half ($50) of the
endowment, which also appears to be the maximum investment it makes. It
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                39

tends to invest slightly more when specifically required to provide an explana-
tion. The distributions are also mildly affected by the assumed occupations,
whereas for a mathematician or an investment fund manager, the distribution
is more spread-out, and it even occasionally invests the entire endowment.
The difference is not significant except for being a public relation specialist
(p = 0.05).
    ChatGPT Plus invests less than ChatGPT-3, with a distribution peaked
at $10 (min = 0, max = 100, µ = 19.6, σ = 23.0, p ≪ 0.001). The keywords
standing out from the responses include risk, return, desires, losing, minimizes,
guarantee, and control. Once again, ChatGPT Free’s decision distribution is
more similar to that of ChatGPT-3 (mode = 30, min = 10, max = 60, µ =
36.7, σ = 12.1, p = 0.792).
    In the second scenario, ChatGPT is asked to play the banker and decides
what proportion of the total revenue is returned to the investor, which could
range all the way from nothing ($0) to the entire revenue (original investment +
2x profit). We find that the two common strategies that ChatGPT-4 uses are to
return 1) the original investment plus half of the profit, or 2) half of the revenue.
The former returns more to the investor than the latter. For ChatGPT-4,
the former is more frequently used, and requiring the explanation makes this
strategy even more dominating. Among the assumed occupations, ChatGPT-
4 returns more generously to the investor as a public relation specialist or an
investment fund manager.
    When the size of the investment increases, there is a shift in ChatGPT-4’s
decision. When the investment was $100 (out of $100), the second and less
generous strategy (returning half revenue) becomes the new dominant (Fig.
12e).
    ChatGPT-3’s decision centers on the first strategy, with small probabili-
ties of giving more generous (even the entire revenue) returns. This strategy
is robust to the size of the investment. When the investment was $10, $50,
and $100, ChatGPT-3’s decision follows a distribution peaked at $20 (µ =
22.5, σ = 4.3), $100 (µ = 112.5, σ = 27.5), and $200 (µ = 239.2, σ = 40.7)
(Fig. 12f). Requesting an explanation makes the distribution even more cen-
tralized, but the extremely generous behavior (returning the whole revenue to
the investor) does not vanish. Being a public relation specialist, a journalist, or
an investment fund manager, ChatGPT-3 tends to pay back more generously
than in the default role.
    Being exposed to a different role influences ChatGPT’s decision in the other
role. When inquired about both scenarios (investor and banker) in the same
session, ChatGPT’s responses for the second role deviate from the distribution
observed in the independent sessions. In particular, after playing the role of
the banker, both ChatGPT-3’s and ChatGPT-4’s investments increased. After
playing the role of the investor, both ChatGPT-3’s and ChatGPT-4’s decisions
as the banker become more generous.
40     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

C.5 The Bomb Risk Game
In the Bomb Risk Game, a player decides how many out of 100 boxes to collect,
one of which contains a ‘bomb.’ Earnings increase linearly with the number of
boxes a player decides to open, but drop to zero if the ‘bomb’ is hit. The game
is designed to measure risk attitudes [17].
    In this game, ChatGPT is asked to open a number of boxes out of 100,
among which a bomb is randomly placed. If the box that contains the bomb
is not opened, then the player earns points that equal the number of boxes
they open. If the box that contains the bomb is opened, the bomb explodes
and the player gets zero points. In every new round, a new set of 100 boxes is
provided and the bomb is placed at random. Opening 50 boxes is where the
expectation of points gain is maximized, and the decision at each round should
be independent of the decisions/results in previous rounds.
    When first exposed to the game, both ChatGPT-3’s and ChatGPT-4’s deci-
sions peak at opening 50 boxes (ChatGPT-3: µ = 39.8, σ = 16.3, ChatGPT-4:
µ = 57.6, σ = 17.4), demonstrating a rational and risk neural pattern of behav-
ior. Despite the mode, the distribution of ChatGPT-4 is significantly more
risk-loving than that of ChatGPT-3 (p < 0.001), with 13.8% of the chance of
opening a maximum number (99) of boxes. When playing the game for mul-
tiple rounds, its decision in the following round is influenced by the outcome
of the previous rounds. As long as the bomb does not explode in the pre-
vious round, ChatGPT-3’s decision in the second round becomes even more
concentrated on 50 boxes (µ = 48.8, σ = 7.7). When the bomb does explode
in the first round, ChatGPT-3 tends to be more conservative in the second
round, with a new mode of opening 25 boxes (µ = 26.4, σ = 10.8). If the
bomb explodes again in the second round, it decides to open even fewer boxes
(mode = 10, µ = 14.8, σ = 11.0) in the third round. If the bomb exploded
in the second round but not in the first round, the average number of boxes
opened in the third round drops from 50 to 43.1 even though the mode is still
50 (mode = 50, σ = 25.0).

C.6 Public Goods
In the Public Goods game, each participant is given an initial endowment and
can contribute any portion to a public good project. The total amount raised
for the project is then multiplied by a factor and distributed equally among all
participants, regardless of their individual contributions. This setup allows for
the exploration of altruistic contributions, the free-rider problem, and social
dilemmas [18].
    In the game, ChatGPT is asked to decide how much money from 0-$20
to contribute to a public project as one of four participants, the personal
payoff of which is the sum of the amount not invested and 50% of the group
contribution. It therefore makes a profit when the contribution from the rest
of the group is greater than its contribution. It is the most common for both
ChatGPT-3 and ChatGPT-4 to invest half of the endowment into the public
    A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?                41

goods project. When ChatGPT-3 receives a greater payoff than the original
endowment, it tends to increase its contribution in the next rounds despite
whether the other players made a larger or smaller contribution (or received a
higher payoff). ChatGPT-4 on the other hand, makes a consistent contribution
in most sessions despite the contribution of other players. In sessions where its
contributions do increase over rounds, the increases tend to be smaller than
those of ChatGPT-3.

C.7 Prisoner’s Dilemma
The Prisoner’s Dilemma is a fundamental game in game theory and behavioral
economics, illustrating the tension between individual and collective rational-
ity. The game highlights that individuals, acting in their own self-interest, can
end up with worse outcomes than if they had cooperated [19–22].
    In our version from MobLab, the framing is as follows. Two players are
separately deciding whether to play the ‘push’ (cooperate) or ‘pull’ (defect)
card. If both push, they collectively earn a higher payoff; if one pulls and the
other pushes, the defector gets all the payoff; if both pull, they both receive
less payment. The payoff matrix is displayed in Table 3.


Table 3: Payoff matrix of the Prisoner’s Dilemma game. The first numbers in cells
are the payoffs of Player A, and the second numbers are the payoffs of Player B.
                                                Player B
                                           Push          Pull
                                 Push    $400, $400    $0, $700
                      Player A
                                 Pull     $700, $0   $300, $300




               ChatGPT-4                                       ChatGPT-3




Fig. 14: Five-round Prisoner’s Dilemma Game. A large proportion of AI decisions
switch from cooperation to defection if the other player defects in the first round.
However, a significant portion reverts back to cooperation in the third round even
if the other player continues to defect. The proportion of cooperation becomes
relatively stable in the following rounds. We executed 5 rounds in total. Partner
actions in each round (1-4) are observed after the player’s action and recorded
below each panel.
42     A Turing Test: Are AI Chatbots Behaviorally Similar to Humans?

    In the five-round game (Fig. 14, for the first round, ChatGPT attempts
to cooperate with the other player in a majority of the sessions (21/30 for
ChatGPT-3, and 29/30 for ChatGPT-4). When the other player chooses to
defect, however, the majority of its decisions in the next round quickly turn into
“Pull” (defect), consistent with the ‘tit for tat’ pattern. Such a “punishing”
strategy does not last if the other player continues to play “Pull.” Instead,
the ratio of “Push” bounces back to 25/30 for ChatGPT-4 and 14/30 for
ChatGPT-3, once again trying to incentivize the other player to coordinate.
    When the other player plays two “Push” cards (chooses to cooperate) in
a row in the third and fourth rounds, both ChatGPT-3’s and ChatGPT-4’s
decisions become relatively stable and end up cooperating in 14/30 of the
instances (ChatGPT-3) and 25/30 of the instances (ChatGPT-4) after all five
rounds.
