American Economic Association

Unique Equilibrium in a Model of Self-Fulfilling Currency Attacks
Author(s): Stephen Morris and Hyun Song Shin
Source: The American Economic Review, Vol. 88, No. 3 (Jun., 1998), pp. 587-597
Published by: American Economic Association
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/116850
Accessed: 20/05/2009 13:33
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use, available at
http://www.jstor.org/page/info/about/policies/terms.jsp. JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use provides, in part, that unless
you have obtained prior permission, you may not download an entire issue of a journal or multiple copies of articles, and you
may use content in the JSTOR archive only for your personal, non-commercial use.
Please contact the publisher regarding any further use of this work. Publisher contact information may be obtained at
http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=aea.
Each copy of any part of a JSTOR transmission must contain the same copyright notice that appears on the screen or printed
page of such transmission.
JSTOR is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1995 to build trusted digital archives for scholarship. We work with the
scholarly community to preserve their work and the materials they rely upon, and to build a common research platform that
promotes the discovery and use of these resources. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.

American Economic Association is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to The
American Economic Review.

http://www.jstor.org

Unique Equilibriumin a Model of Self-FulfillingCurrencyAttacks
By STEPHEN MORRIS AND HYUN SONG SHN *

Even though self-fulfilling currency attacks lead to multiple equilibria whenfundamentals are commonknowledge, we demonstratethe uniqueness of equilibrium
when speculators face a small amount of noise in their signals about the fundamentals. This unique equilibrium depends not only on the fundamentals, but
also on financial variables, such as the quantity of hot money in circulation and
the costs of speculative trading. In contrast to multiple equilibrium models, our
model allows analysis ofpolicy proposals directed at curtailing currencyattacks.

(JELF31, D82)
Speculativeattacksaresometimestriggered
without warning,and without any apparent
changein the economicfundamentals.Commentatorswho have attemptedto explainepisodesof speculativecriseshavepointedto the
self-fulfillingnatureof the belief in an imminent speculativeattack.If speculatorsbelieve
that a currencywill come underattack,their
actionsin anticipationof this precipitatethe
crisis itself, while if they believe that a currencyis notin dangerof imminentattack,their
inaction spares the currency from attack,
therebyvindicatingtheirinitialbeliefs.'
However, merely pointing to the selffulfillingnatureof beliefs leaves open a numberof crucialquestions.First,suchan account
leaves unexplainedthe actualonset of an at* Morris: Department of Economics, University of
Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA
19104; Shin: Nuffield College, Oxford OXI 1NF, England. We are grateful to Marcus Miller for encouraging
us to pursue this topic and to Stephen Coate and John
Driffill for advice during the preparationof this paper.We
thank Anne Sibert for her comments as discussant at the
CEPR conference on "Origins and Management of Financial Crises." The first author acknowledges the support of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.The second author
acknowledges the support of the U.K. Economic and Social Research Council under Grant No. R000221556. Finally, we thank two anonymous referees for comments on
an earlier version.
' This theme is explored in Robert P. Flood and Peter
M. Garber (1984) and Maurice Obstfeld (1986, 1994,
1996). A closely related literatureexplores self-fulfilling
debt crises; see Guillermo A. Calvo (1988), Jonathan
Eaton and Raquel Fernandez (1995), and Harold L. Cole
and Timothy J. Kehoe (1996).
587

tack when it occurs. By most accounts, both
the European Exchange Rate Mechanism
(ERM) and the Mexican peso were "ripe" for
attack for some time before the crises that
brought them down in the early 1990's-at
least two years in Europe and perhaps a year
in Mexico (Barry Eichengreen and Charles
Wyplosz, 1993; Rudiger Dornbusch and
Alejandro M. Werner, 1994). At any point in
those periods, concerted selling by speculators
would have raised the costs of maintainingthe
exchange rate sufficiently high that the monetary authorities would have been forced to
abandon the parity. Why did the attacks happen when they did? Conventional accounts resort to forces that operate outside the
theoretical model in trying to explain the shift
of expectations that precipitated the attack.
Some of these informal accounts are more persuasive than others, but none can be fully compelling as a theoretical model of the onset of
a currency crisis.
Secondly, merely pointing to the selffulfilling natureof beliefs leaves open the policy issues associated with curbing speculative
attacks. For example, it is often argued that
increased capital mobility induced by lower
transaction costs increases the likelihood of
currency crises, and that judicious "throwing
of sand" into the excessively well-oiled
wheels of internationalfinance will play a role
in curbing speculative attacks (Eichengreen et
al., 1995). However, an account that merely
points to the self-fulfilling nature of beliefs
cannot contribute to this debate, since the
question of how the beliefs are determined is

588

THE AMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

beyond the scope of such an account. Any argument for or against the proposal has to resort
to forces outside the formal theory.
We argue here that the apparentmultiplicity
of equilibria associated with self-fulfilling beliefs is the consequence of assuming too simple a picture of the role played by information
in a speculative episode. Although marketparticipants each have a window on to the world,
the imperfect nature of such a vantage point
generates a failure of common knowledge of
the fundamentals. Thus, everyone may know
that the fundamentalsare sound, but it may not
be that everyone knows that everyone knows
this. Still higher orders of such uncertainty
may be relevant. Uncertainty about other participants' beliefs is crucial to a speculative episode, since the onset of a speculative attack
relies to a large extent on coordinatedbehavior
of speculators. We propose a more realistic
modelling of the information structureunderlying speculative situations that enables us to
pinpoint the forces which determine the onset
of a speculative attack. When speculators observe an independent noisy signal of the state
of fundamentals, common knowledge of the
fundamentalsno longer holds. This is enough
to induce a unique equilibrium of the model,
in which there is a critical state below which
attack always occurs and above which attack
never occurs.2 The value of this critical state
depends on financial variables such as the
mass of speculators and the transaction costs
associated with attacking the currency. As a
consequence, we can say something about
how this unique outcome depends on the parameters of the problem, such as the costs of
speculation, the underlying strength of the
economy, and the size of the pool of hot
money in circulation.
Informationplays a subtle role in speculative
crises. What is importantis not the amount of
inforrnation,per se, but ratherhow public and
transparenthis informationis. If marketpartic-

2 Andrew Postlewaite and Xavier Vives (1987) discuss the role of infornation in selecting among multiple
equilibria in the closely related context of bank runs. Our
analysis builds on and extends the earlier incomplete informationgame analysis of Hans Carlsson and Eric E. van
Damme (1993) and Morris et al. (1995).

JUNE 1998

ipants are well informed about the fundamentals, but they are unsure of the information
received by other participants,and hence unsure of the beliefs held by others, speculative
attacksmay be triggeredeven though eveiyone
knows that the fundamentals are sound. Our
analysis highlights the importanceof the transparency of the conduct of monetarypolicy and
its disseminationto the public.
1. Model
Our model is concerned with the strategic
interaction between the government and a
group of speculators in the foreign exchange
market that takes place against the backdrop
of a competitive market for foreign exchange.
The economy is characterized by a state of
fundamentals 0, which we assume to be uniformly distributedover the unit interval [0, 1].
The exchange rate in the absence of government intervention is a function of 0, and is
given by f(0). We assume that f is strictly
increasing in 09, so that higher values of 0 correspond to "stronger fundamentals."
The exchange rate is initially pegged by the
government at e *, where e* :-2f(0) for all 0.
Facing the governmentis a continuumof speculators who may take one of two actions. A
speculator may either attack the currency by
selling short one unit of the currency, or refrain from doing so. There is a cost t > 0 associated with short-selling. If a speculator
short-sells the currency and the government
abandonsthe exchange rate peg, then the payoff at state 0 by attackingthe currencyis given
by the fall in the exchange rate minus the
transactioncost. Thus the speculator's payoff
is e * -f (0) - t. If the government defends
the peg, then the speculator pays the transaction cost, but has no capital gain. Thus his payoff is -t. If the speculator chooses not to
attack the currency, his payoff is zero.
The government derives a value v > 0 from
defending the exchange rate at the pegged
level, but also faces costs of doing so. The cost
of defending the peg depends on the state of
the fundamentals, as well as the proportionof
speculators who attack the currency. We denote by c (a, 0) the cost of defending the peg
if proportion a of the speculators attack the
currency at the state 0. The government's pay-

VOL. 88 NO. 3

MORRISAND SHIN: UNIQUE EQUILIBRIUMAND CURRENCYA1TACKS

589

c(cx,O)

e*t

,O)
c~~~(1

|

e*- t

0-

v\
f(0)

0(010)
0

1

0

0

FIGURE 1. COST AND BENEFIT TO THE GOVERNMENT IN
MAINTAINING THE CURRENCY PEG

off to abandoning the exchange rate is thus
zero while the payoff to defending the
exchange rate is
v - c(a, 0).
We assume that c is continuous and is increasing in a while decreasing in 0. In particular, to make the problem economically
interesting we will impose the following assumptions on the cost function and the floating
exchange rate f(0).
* c(O, 0) > v. In the worst state of fundamentals, the cost of defending the currency
is so high that it exceeds the value v even if
no speculators attack.
* c ( 1, 1) > v. If all the speculators attackthe
currency, then even in the best state of the
fundamentals,the cost of defending the currency exceeds the value.
e * - f ( 1) < t. In the best state of the fundamentals, the floating exchange rate f(I)
is sufficiently close to the pegged level e *
such that any profit from the depreciationof
the currency is outweighed by the transactions cost t.
Let us denote by 0 the value of 0 which solves
c(0, 0) = v. In other words, 0 is the value of

0

6

1

FIGURE 2. THE MANAGED EXCHANGE RATE AND THE
EXCHANGE RATE IN THE ABSENCE OF INTERVENTION AS A
FUNCTION OF THE STATE OiF FUNDAMENTALS

0 at which the government is indifferent between defending the peg and abandoning it in
the absence of any speculative selling. When
0 < 0, the cost of defending the cunrencyexceeds the value, even if no speculators attack
the currency (see Figure 1 ). At the other
end, denote by 0 the value of 0 at whichf(0) =
e * - t, so that the floatingexchangerate is
below the peg by the amount of the cost of
attack.When 0 > 0, then the floating exchange
rate is sufficiently close to the peg that a speculator cannot obtain a positive payoff by attacking the currency (see Figure 2). Using the
two benchmark levels of the state of fundamentals 0 and 6, we can classify the state of
fundamentalsunder three headings, according
to the underlying strategic situation.

A. TripartiteClassification of Fundamentals
Assuming that 0 < , we can partition the
space of fundamentals into three intervals,3
emphasized by Maurice Obstfeld ( 1996).
* In the interval [0, 0], the value of defending
the peg is outweighedby its cost irrespective

3 This assumption will hold if v is large and t is small.

590

THE AMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

JUNE 1998

of the actions of the speculators. The government then has no reason to defend the
currency. For this reason, we say that the
currency is unstable if 0 E [0, 0].
* In the interval (0, 0), the value of defending
the currency is greater than the cost, provided thatsufficiently few speculatorsattack
the currency. In particular, if none of the
speculators attacks, then the value of defending the currencyis greaterthan the cost,
and so the government will maintain the
peg, which in turnjustifies the decision not
to attack. However, it is also the case that if
all the speculators attack the currency, then
the cost of defending the currency is too
high, and the government will abandon the
peg. Moreover, since His the right end point
of this interval, a speculator will make a
positive profit if the government were to
abandonthe peg at any state 6 in the interval
(6, 6), so that if a speculator believes that
the currency peg will be abandoned, then
attacking the currency is the rational
action. For this reason, we say that the currency is ripe for attack if 6 EC(6, 6).
* Finally, in the interval [6, 1], although the
speculators can force the government to
abandon the peg, the resulting depreciation
of the currency is so small that they cannot
recoup the cost of attacking the currency.
Thus, even if a speculator were to believe
that the currencywill fall, the rationalaction
is to refrain from attacking it. In other
words, it is a dominant action not to attack.
For this reason, we say that the currency is
stable if 6 E [6, 1].

dicating the speculators' decisions not to
attack the currency. On the other hand, if the
speculators believe that the currency peg will
be abandoned, the rational action is to attack
the currency, which in turn induces the government to abandon the peg, vindicating the
decision to attack. Given this multiplicity of
equilibria, no definitive prediction can be
made as to whether the currency will come
under attackor not. We will now see, however,
that the situation is very different when the
speculatorsface a small amount of uncertainty
concerning the fundamentals. Each state of
fundamentals gives rise to a unique outcome.

The interesting range is the "ripe for attack" region. Suppose that the government's
decision on whether or not to defend the currency is determinedpurely by weighing up the
costs and benefits, and that it makes its decision once all the speculators have made their
decisions. Then, if all the speculatorshave perfect information concerning the realization of
6, the "ripe for attack" region gives rise to the
standardcase of multiple equilibria due to the
self-fulfilling nature of the speculators' beliefs. If the speculators believe that the currency peg will be maintained,then it is optimal
not to attack, which in turn induces the govemment to defend the currency, thereby vin-

The payoffs of the game follow from the
description of the model above. We assume
that if a speculator is indifferent between attacking and not attacking, he will refrainfrom
attacking and that if the government is indifferent between defending the peg and abandoning it, it will choose to abandon it.5
An equilibrium for this game consists of
strategies for government and for the contin-

B. Game with ImperfectInformnation
of Fundamentals
Suppose that the speculators each have a
signal concerning the state of fundamentals,as
in the following game.
* Nature chooses the state of fundamentals 0
according to the uniform density over the
unit interval.
* When the true state is 0, a speculator observes a signal x which is drawn uniformly
from the interval [0 - s, 0 + E], for some
small4 E > 0. Conditional on 0, the signals
are identical and independent across individuals. Based on the signal observed, a
speculator decides whether or not to attack
the currency.
* The government observes the realized proportion of speculators who attack the currency, a, and observes 0.

4 In particular,we assume that 2e < min { 0, 1 - }.
5 Nothing substantial hinges on these assumptions,
which are made for purposes of simplifying the statement
of our results.

VOL. 88 NO. 3

MORRISAND SHIN: UNIQUE EQUILIBRIUMAND CURRENCYA7TACKS

uum of speculators such that no player has an
incentive to deviate. We can solve out the government's strategy at the final stage of the
game, to define a reduced-formgame between
the speculators only. To do this, consider the
critical proportion of speculators needed to
trigger the government to abandon the peg at
state 0. Let a(0) denote this critical mass. In
the "unstable" region a(6) = 0, while elsewhere a(0) is the value of a which solves c(a,
0) = v. Figure 3 depicts this function, which
is continuous and strictly increasing in 0 where
it takes a positive value, and is bounded above
by 1.
The unique optimal strategy for the government is then to abandonthe exchange rate only
if the observed fraction of deviators, a, is
greaterthan or equal to the critical mass a (0)
in the prevailing state 0.
Taking as given this optimal strategyfor the
government, we can characterize the payoffs
in the reduced-form game between the speculators. For a given profile of strategies of the
speculators, we denote by

591

a(o)
1

a(o)

0

0

0

FIGURE 3. THE PROPORTION OF SPECULATORS WHOSE
SHORT SALES ARE SUFFICIENT TO INDUCE DEPRECIATION,
EXPIRESSED AS A FUNCTION OF THE FUNDAMENTALS

state 0 when aggregate short sales are given by

7r(x)

ir iS

the proportion of speculators who attack the
currencywhen the value of the signal is x. We
denote by s (0, 7r)the proportionof speculators
who end up attacking the currency when the
state of fundamentals is 0, given aggregate
selling strategy r. Since signals are uniformly
distributedover [0 - E, 0 + E] at 0, we have6

(1)

s(0, ) =

1

j0+6

-I

r(x) dx.

Denote by A ( r) the event where the government abandons the currency peg if the speculators follow strategy r:
(2)

A(7r) = {IIs(,

7r) 2 a(6) }.

We can then define the payoffs of a reducedform game between the speculators. The payoff to a speculator of attackingthe currency at

6 The following formula is for 0 E [s, 1 - e]; for 0
close to 0 or 1, the limits of the integration must be adjusted accordingly.

(3)

h(, 7r)
[e* ( -

-t f

{t

if 0 EA(r)

if H A(7r).

However, a speculator does not observe 0 directly. The payoff to attacking the currency
must be calculated from the posterior distribution over the states conditional on the signal
x. The expected payoff to attacking the currency conditional on the signal x is given by
the expectation of (3) conditional on x. Denoting this by u(x, 7r), we have
(4)

u(x, 7r)
1 dix+6

=_2s: J x2?

h(0, r) dO

(e*-f(9))dOl-t.

1
+(7r)n[r -,xJ+e

Since a speculator can guarantee a payoff of
zero by refrainingfrom attackingthe currency,
the rational decision conditional on signal x
depends on whether u (x, 7r)is positive or negative. Thus if the government follows its
unique optimal strategy, ir is an equilibriumof
the first period game if ir(x) = 1 whenever
u(x, 7r) > 0 and ir(x) = 0 whenever u(x,
r) c

JUNE 1998

THE AMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

592

u(x, 7r)

= +2A[f [r

(7r)n[x-f[,X+

2s

0.

s]

(e*-f(O))dO -t
~~(e*-f(O)) dO _ t

2-J

( 7r') n [x -e-,x + e]i

U(X, r'),

IL. UniqueEquilibrium
which proves the lemma.
We now state the main result of our paper,
noting the contrastbetween the multiplicity of
possible outcomes when there is perfect information of the fundamentalsagainstthe uniqueness of outcome when there is a small amount
of noise.

For the next step, consider the strategyprofile where every speculator attacks the currency if and only if the message x is less than
some fixed number k. Then, aggregate short
sales ir will be given by the indicatorfunction
Ik, defined as

THEOREM 1: There is a unique 0 * such
that, in any equilibrium of the game with
imperfect information, the government
abandons the currency peg if and only if
0 c 0*.
The argument for our result can be presented in three steps.
LEMMA 1: If ir(x) 2 ir'(x) for all x, then
u(x, 7r) ? u(x, r')forallx.
In other words, if we compare two strategy profiles ir and ir', where ir entails a
greater proportion of speculators who attack for any message x, then the payoff to
attacking the currency is greater given ir
than when it is given by ir'. Thus speculators' decisions to attack the currency are
strategic complements.
PROOF OF LEMMA 1:
Since ir(x) 2 ir'(x), we have s(0, 7r) 2
s(0, ir') for every 0, from the definition of s
given by (1). Thus, from (2),
A(ir) v A(lr').
In other words, the event in which the currency peg is abandonedis strictly larger under
7r.Then, from (4) and the fact that e* f(0)
is nonnegative,

(5)

Ik(X)

rI
l

if x < k
if x 2 k

When speculators follow this simple rule of
action, the expected payoff to attacking the
currency satisfies the following property.
LEMMA 2: u(k, Ik) is continuous and
strictly decreasing in k.
In other words, when aggregate short sales
are govemed by Ik, and we consider the payoff
to attacking the currency given the marginal
message k, this payoff is decreasing as the fundamentals of the economy become stronger.
Put anotherway, when the fundamentalsof the
economy are stronger, the payoff to attacking
the currency is lower for a speculator on the
margin of switching from attacking to not attacking. Such a property would be a reasonable feature of any model of currency attacks
where the government is able to resist speculators better when the fundamentals are
stronger.
The proof of Lemma 2 is simple but involves some algebraic manipulation, and
hence is presented separatelyin the Appendix.
Taking Lemma 2 as given, we can then prove
the following result.
LEMMA 3: There is a unique x * such that,
in any equilibrium of the game with imperfect

VOL 88 NO. 3

MORRISAND SHIN: UNIQUE EQUILIBRIUMAND CURRENCYAITACKS

informationof the fundamentals, a speculator
with signal x attacks the currency if and only
if x < x*.

To provethis,we beginby establishingthat
thereis a uniquevalueof k at which
u(k, Ik) = O.

FromLemma2, we knowthatu(k, Ik)is continuousandstrictlydecreasingin k. If we can
show thatit is positive for small values of k
and negative for large values, then we can
guaranteethat u(k, Ik) = 0 for some k. When
k is sufficientlysmall (i.e., k ! 0 - e), the
marginalspeculatorwith message k knows
that the true state of fundamentalsis in the
"unstable"region, since such a message is
consistentonly with a realizationof 0 in the
interval[0, 0]. Since the payoff to attacking
thecurrencyis positiveatany0 in thisinterval,
we have u(k, Ik) > 0. Similarly, when k is
sufficientlylarge (i.e., k 2 9 + s), the mar-

ginalspeculatorwithmessagek knowsthatthe
true stateof fundamentalsis in the "stable"
region.Since the payoff to attackingis negative at everystatein thisregion,we haveu(k,
Ik) < 0. Hence, thereis a uniquevalue of k
forwhichu(k, Ik)= 0, andwe definethevalue
x* as this uniquesolutionto u(k, Ik) = 0.
Now, consideranyequilibriumof the game,
and denoteby 7r(x)the proportionof speculatorswho attackthe currencygiven message
x. Definethe numbersx andx-as
x = infI xljr(x) < 1)
andx-= sup{xL7r(x)> 0.
Sincei?- sup{xI0 < 7r(x)< 1 2 inf{xI0 <
7r(x)< 1
x,
x

(6)

.

When 7r(x) < 1, there are some speculators
who are not attackingthe currency.This is
only consistentwith equilibriumbehaviorif
the payoff to not attackingis at least as high
as thepayoffto attackinggivenmessagex. By
continuity,thisis trueat x also.Inotherwords,
(7)

_

.

{

, K) _. 0

593

Now, consider the payoff u ( x, Ix). Clearly,
Ix 7r,so that Lemma 1 and (7) imply u(x,
Ix) < u(x, ir) ? 0. Thus, u(x, Ix) < 0. Since
we know from Lemma 2 that u(k, Ik) is decreasing in k and x* is the unique value of k
which solves u(k, Ik) = 0, we have
(8)

x-x2

.

A symmetric argumentestablishes that
-c X*.

(9)

Thus, from (8) and (9), we have x ? x* 2
However, we know from (6) that this
implies

x.

x = x=

Thus, the equilibrium 1r is given by the step
function Ix*, which is what Lemma 3 states.
Hence, this proves Lemma 3.
From this, it is a short step to the proof of
our main theoremitself. Given thatequilibrium
7ris given by the step functionIx*,the aggregate
short sales at the state 0 are given by

r1 if <x*
I
s(,

Ix*) =
1

Lo

-e

(O - x*)
2e
ifx* - 8 < 0 <.x* + e

_

if

>X*

+ S.

Aggregate short sales s( 9, Ix*) are decreasing
in 0 when its value is strictly between 0 and 1,
while a(9) is increasing in 0 for this range.
See Figure 4, which illustrates the derivation
of the cutoff point for the state of fundamentals
at which the equilibrium short sales are equal
to the short sales which induce depreciation.
We know that x * > 0 -- s, since otherwise
attacking the currency is a strictly better action, contradictingthe fact that x * is a switching point. Thus, s (O, Ix*) and a (0) cross
precisely once. Define 9* to be the value of 0
at which these two curves cross. T'hen, s(9,
Ix*) 2 a(0) if and only if 0 90*, so that the
government abandons the currency peg if and
only if 0 ? 0*. This is the claim of our main
theorem.

594

1

THE AMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

-

-

s(o, Ix*)
a(o)

X0-

0

* X*-FE
Q

1

0

FIGURE 4. THE DERIVATION OF THE CUTOFF POINT FOR
THE STATE OF FUNDAMENTALS AT WHICH THE
EQUILIBRIUM SHORT SALES ARE EQUAL TO THE SHORT
SALES WHICH INDUCE DEPRECIATION

III. Comparative Statics and Policy Implications

A. Changes in the InformationStructure
When there is no noise, there are multiple
equilibria throughoutthe "ripe for attack" region of fundamentals. But when there is positive noise, there is a unique equilibrium with
critical value 0*. The value of 0* in the limit
as ? tends to zero has a particularly simple
characterization.
THEOREM 2: In the limit as ? tends to zero,
0* is given by the unique solution to the equationf(0*)

= e* - 2t.

The proof is in the Appendix. Intuition is
gained by considering the marginal speculator
who observes message x = 0*. With s small,
this tells the speculator that the true 0 is close
to 0*. Since the government abandonsthe peg
if and only if 0 is less than 0*, he attachesequal
probability to the currency being abandoned
and defended. So, the expected payoff to attacking is '12(e* - f(0* )), while the cost is t.
For the marginal speculator, these are equal,
leading to the equation in Theorem 2.

JUNE 1998

Informationplays a subtle role in the model.
What mattersis not the amountof information,
per se, but whether there is common knowledge. With noise, it is never common knowledge that the fundamentalsare consistent with
the government maintainingthe currencypeg,
i.e., that 0 2 0. If you observe a signal greater
than 0 + s, then you can claim to know that
0 2 9, since your message has the margin of
error of s. When do you know that everyone
knows that 0 2 9? In other words, when do
you know that everyone has observed a signal
greater than 0 + s? Since others' signals can
differ from yours by at most 2s, this will be
true if you observe a signal greater than 0 +
3s. Proceeding in this way, there is "nth order
knowledge" that 0 2 0 (i.e., everyone knows
that everyone knows ... (n times) that everyone knows it) exactly if everyone has observed a signal greater than or equal to 0 +
(2n -1 ) s. But, by definition, there is common
knowledge that 09 0 if and only if there is
nth order knowledge for every n. But for any
fixed s and signal x, there will be some level
n at which nth order iterated knowledge fails.
Thus it is never common knowledge that 0 is
not in the unstable region.
One interpretationwe may put on noisy information is that the recipients of the differential informationlearn of the true underlying
fundamentalsof the economy with little error,
but that there are small discrepancies in how
these messages are interpreted by the recipients. When looking for a cause or a trigger for
a currency attack, we should look for the arrival of noisy information, i.e., news events
that are not interpretedin exactly the same way
by different speculators. The informational
events that matter may be quite subtle. A
"6grain of doubt," allowing that others may
believe that the economy is, in fact, unstable,
will lead to a currency crises even if everyone
knows that the economy is not unstable. In
predicting when crises will occur, average
opinion or even extreme opinion need not precipitate a crisis. Rather, what matters is the
higher order beliefs of some participantswho
are apprehensive about the beliefs of others,
concerning the beliefs of yet further individuals, on these extreme opinions. This interpretation may shed light on some accounts of
recent currency crises. Rumors of political

VOL.88 NO. 3

MORRISAND SHIN: UNIQUE EQUILIBRIUMAND CURRENCYATTACKS

trouble in Chiapas Province were widely cited
as a cause of the 1994 Mexico crisis (New
York Times, 1994); uncertainty about Maastricht, German unification, and Bundesbank
pronouncements were argued to be important
in the 1992 EuropeanMonetary System crises.
Our analysis suggests that such "informational events" might precipitate a crisis even
if no investor thought they conveyed real informationaboutfundamentalsthemselves. It is
enough that the announcementsremove common knowledge that the fundamentals were
sustainable.
Above all, our analysis suggests an important role for public announcements by the
monetary authorities, and more generally, the
transparencyof the conduct of monetary policy and its dissemination to the public. If it is
the case that the onset of currency crises may
be precipitated by higher-order beliefs, even
though participantsbelieve that the fundamentals are sound, then the policy instruments
which will stabilize the marketare those which
aim to restore transparencyto the situation, in
an attempt to restore common knowledge of
the fundamentals. The most effective means
towards this would be a prominent public announcement which is commonly known to
convey informationto all relevantparticipants.
The canonical case of a communication arrangement which would be conducive to
achieving common knowledge is the "town
hall meeting" in which an announcement is
made to an audience gatheredin a single room,
where everyone can observe that all other participants are in an identical position. In contrast, if the audience is fragmented, and must
communicate in small groups, common
knowledge is extremely difficult to achieve.7
The Clinton administration'sannouncementof
the $40 billion dollar rescue package for the
Mexican peso can be seen as an attempt to
restore the sort of transparency referred to
above. Its effectiveness derived more from its
very public nature, ratherthan the actual sum
of money involved. This suggests a crucial

7 Ariel Rubinstein's (1989) e-mail game is a case in
point, and Michael S.-Y. Chwe (1996) has suggested
some of the relevant factors which would allow us to address this issue in a more general context.

595

role for the timely and effective dissemination
of information on the part of policy makers,
and the smooth functioning of a reliable and
transparentset of communication channels between marketparticipantsand the policy makers, as well as between the marketparticipants
themselves.
B. Changes in Transaction Costs
We next examine shifts in t. Drawing on
Theorem 2, which determines 0* in the limit
as s becomes small, we can totally differentiate the equationf (0*)
e * - 2t to obtain
d9*
dt

2

f ' (0*)

Thus increasing transactioncosts preventscurrency crises, since it reduces the range of fundamentals where an attack occurs. The size of
this effect depends on the slope off: when the
f ' is small, an increase in the cost of speculation has a large effect on the switching point
O*.This suggests that the imposition of small
transactions costs as advocated by several
commentatorswill have a large impact on the
prevalence of speculation precisely when the
consequences of such speculative attacks are
small. If speculative attacks are predicted to
lead to drastic effects (i.e., when f(0) is a
steep function of 0), then the imposition of a
small additionalcost is unlikely to have a large
effect on the incidence of currency attacks.
C. Changes in Aggregate Wealth
Now consider how our analysis is affected
when aggregate wealth varies. The international flow of so-called "hot money" would be
one factorin determiningthis aggregatewealth,
as well as changes in the numbers of speculators themselves. The main effect of a change in
aggregatewealth of the speculatorsis a change
in the function a (0), which indicates the critical proportionof speculators needed to attack
the currencyin orderto induce the government
to abandonthe currencypeg. When the aggregate wealth of the speculators increases, then
this criticalproportionof speculatorsfalls, since
the government's decision is based on the absolute level of short sales.

596

THE AMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

As can be seen from Figure 4, a downward
shift in the a (0) function has the effect of enlarging the set of states at which the government abandonsthe exchange rate peg. In other
words the event A( 7r) = {0js(9,i7r) > a(0)}
is strictly larger with a lower a(-) function.
Since the payoff to speculation is given by
fA(J) ~

-

~+

A7r) n [x-E,X + E

(e*

f(O)) dO- t,

the enlargement of the event A (i7r)has an unambiguous effect in increasing the payoff to
attacking the currency at any value of the signal x. Thus, the benchmarkvalue 0* is shifted
to the right, and the incidence of speculative
attacks increases.
Note, however, from Figure 4 that the effect
of an increase in the a ( ) function depends on
the size of the noise s. The effect is largest
when s is also large. In the limiting case when
s tends to zero, the equilibrium s(9, Ix*) becomes the step function Ix*, so that a shift in
the a(-) function has no effect on the switching point 0*. Thus, our analysis suggests that
changes in the aggregate wealth of speculators
need not have a large impact on the incidence
of currency attacks when the speculatorshave
fairly precise information concerning the fundamentals. It is when the noise is large that
shifts in wealth have a big impact.
This suggests that the imposition of direct
capital controls work best when there is a lack
of "transparency" of the economic fundamentals, in the sense that observers differ
widely in their interpretationof the economic
fundamentals.When the fundamentalsare relatively transparentto all (corresponding to a
small s), direct capital controls seem far less
effective. Under such circumstances, strategic
considerations dominate any uncertaintyconceming the fundamentals.
IV. Conclusion
Existing models of currency attacksthat focus on fundamentals ignore the role of speculators' beliefs about other speculators'
behavior. Existing self-fulfilling beliefs models of currency attacksassume that speculators
know (in equilibrium)exactly what other speculators will do. Neither feature is realistic. Our

JUNE 1998

model takes neither extreme. Because there is
some uncertainty about equilibrium, speculators are uncertain as to exactly what other
speculatorswill do; but their behavior depends
nontrivially on what they believe they will do.
Because our model of self-fulfilling currency
attacks is consistent with unique equilibrium,
we are able to analyze the impact of alternative
policies.
APPENDIX

PROOF OF LEMMA 2:
Consider the function s(0, Ik), which gives
the proportion of speculators who attack the
currency at 0 when the aggregate short sales is
given by the step function Ik. Since x is uniformly distributed over [0 - , 0 + s], we
have

I if 0
I-

(Al)

s(9,Ik)=

2

k-e

I-(0 -k)
2e
Iifk - G? 0C k + s

t0 if 0 2~:k+

.

If aggregate short sales are given by Ik, there
is a unique 0 (which depends on k) where the
mass of speculators attacking equals the mass
of speculators necessary to cause the government to abandon the exchange rate [where
s(9, Ik) = a(0)]. Write qp(k)for the amount
that 0 must exceed k in order for this to be
true. In other words, +i(k) is the unique value
of qi solving s(k + '1,Ik) = a(k + qi). Observe
that+r(k) = s if k ' 0 - s, while if k> 0 ?, then -s < +i(k) < s and is the value of q,
solving(1/2 - if/2s) = a(k + if)).
Since the government abandons the currency peg if and only if 0 lies in the interval
[0, k + if(k)], the payoff function u(k, Ik) is
given by
(A2)

J

k ++-(k)

(e* -f(O))

d

-t.

Since e * - f (0) is strictly decreasing in 0, if
we can show that +f(k) is weakly decreasing
in k, this will be sufficient to show that u (k,
Ik) is strictly decreasing in k. To see that +f(k)

MORRISAND SHIN: UNIQUE EQUILIBRIUMAND CURRENCYATIACKS

VOL. 88 NO. 3

is weakly decreasing in k, totally differentiate
the equation (1/2 - qi/2s) = a(k + i/) with
respect to k, to obtain-( 1 / 2s)'(
k) =
a'(G)(1 + ah'(k)). Hence,
=
q~'(k)

-

0

a'(9)

a'(0) + (1/2e)

-

which is sufficient for u(k, Ik) to be strictly
decreasing in k. Finally, the continuity of u (k,
Ik) follows immediately from the fact that it is
an integral in which the limits of integration
are themselves continuous in k. This completes the proof of Lemma 2.
PROOF OF THEOREM 2:
Consider the switching point x*, which is
the solution to the equation u(x*, Ix*) - 0.
Then, writingF(e) = A (i,*) n [X* - ,x* + -e
f(0)) dG, we can express this equation as
(F(e)12e) - t = 0. By using L'Hopital's rule,
F(e)
2c

F'(0)
2

e*

f(x*)
2

0, equation (A3)
Thus, in the limit as e
yieldsf(x*) = e*- 2t. Finally, we note that
x * converges to G*when e tends to zero, since
in the limit, s(8, Ix*) = Ix*
REFERENCES
Calvo, Guillermo A. "Servicing the Public
Debt: The Role of Expectations." American
Economic Review, September 1988, 78(4),
pp. 647-61.
Carlsson,Hansand van Damme,EricE. "Global
Games and Equilibrium Selection." Econometrica, September 1993, 61(5), pp. 9891018.
Chwe,MichaelS.-Y. "Structureand Strategy in
Collective Action: Communicationand Coordination in Social Networks." Mimeo,
University of Chicago, 1996.
Cole, Harold L. and Kehoe, TimothyJ. "SelfFulfilling Debt Crises." Federal Reserve

597

Bank of Minneapolis Research Department
Staff Report No. 211, 1996.
Dornbusch,Rudigerand Werner,AlejandroM.
"Mexico: Stabilization, Reform and No
Growth." Brookings Papers on Economic
Activity, 1994, (1), pp. 253-315.
Eaton,Jonathanand Fernandez,Raquel. "Sovereign Debt," in Gene M. Grossman and
Kenneth Rogoff, eds., Handbook of international economics, Vol. III. Amsterdam:
North-Holland, 1995, pp. 2031-71.
Eichengreen,Barry;Tobin,James and Wyplosz,
Charles."Two Cases for Sand in the Wheels
of InternationalFinance." Economic Journal, January 1995, 105(428), pp. 162-72.
Eichengreen,Barryand Wyplosz,Charles."The
Unstable EMS." Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 1993, (1), pp. 51--143.
Flood, Robert P. and Garber,Peter M. "Gold
Monetization and Gold Discipline." Journal of Political Economy, February 1984,
92(1), pp. 90-107.
Morris,Stephen;Rob,Rafaeland Shin,HyunSong.
"p-Domance and Belief Potential."Econometrica,January1995, 63(1), pp. 145-57.
New YorkTimes,The.December 20-23, 1994,
various articles.
Obstfeld, Maurice. "Rational and SelfFulfilling Balance-of-Payments Crises."
American Economic Review, March 1986,
76(1), pp. 72-81.
. "The Logic of CurTencyCrises." Cahiers Economiques et Monetaires (Banque
de France), 1994, 43, pp. 189-213.
_-.
"Models of Currency Crises with
Self-Fulfilling Features." European Economic Review, April 1996, 40(3-5), pp.
1037-47.
Postlewaite,Andrew and Vives, Xavier. "Bank
Runs as an Equilibrium Phenomenon."
Journal of Political Economy, June 1987,
95(3), pp. 485-91.
Rubinstein,Ariel. "The Electronic Mail Game:
StrategicBehavior Under 'Almost Common
Knowledge.' " American Economic Review, June 1989, 79(3), pp. 385-91.

