Social Value of Public Information
Author(s): Stephen Morris and Hyun Song Shin
Source: The American Economic Review, Vol. 92, No. 5 (Dec., 2002), pp. 1521-1534
Published by: American Economic Association
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3083261
Accessed: 27/08/2008 20:15
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use, available at
http://www.jstor.org/page/info/about/policies/terms.jsp. JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use provides, in part, that unless
you have obtained prior permission, you may not download an entire issue of a journal or multiple copies of articles, and you
may use content in the JSTOR archive only for your personal, non-commercial use.
Please contact the publisher regarding any further use of this work. Publisher contact information may be obtained at
http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=aea.
Each copy of any part of a JSTOR transmission must contain the same copyright notice that appears on the screen or printed
page of such transmission.

JSTOR is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1995 to build trusted digital archives for scholarship. We work with the
scholarly community to preserve their work and the materials they rely upon, and to build a common research platform that
promotes the discovery and use of these resources. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.

http://www.jstor.org

Social Valueof PublicInformation
MORRISANDHYUNSONGSHIN*
By STEPHEN
What are the welfare effects of enhanced dissemination of public information
through the media and disclosures by marketparticipants with high public visibility? We examine the impact of public informationin a setting where agents take
actions appropriate to the underlyingfundamentals, but they also have a coordination motive arising from a strategic complementarityin their actions. Whenthe
agents have no socially valuable private information,greater provision of public
informationalways increases welfare. However, when agents also have access to
independentsources of information,the welfare effect of increased public disclosures is ambiguous. (JEL D82)

The history of speculative bubbles begins
roughly with the advent of newspapers.
One can assume that, although the record
of these early newspapers is mostly lost,
they regularly reportedon thefirst bubble
of any consequence, the Dutch tulipmania
of the 1630s. Although the news medianewspapers, magazines, and broadcast
media, along with their new outlets on the
Internet-present themselves as detached
observersof marketevents, they are themselves an integral part of these events.
Significantmarketevents generally occur
only if there is similar thinking among
large groups of people, and the news media are essential vehiclesfor the spread of
ideas.
Robert Shiller (2002)
For a decision maker facing a choice under
uncertainty,greater access to informationpermits actions that are better suited to the circumstances. Also, to the extent that one decision
maker'schoice is made in isolation from others,

more information is generally beneficial. This
conclusion is unaffected by whether the incremental informationis public (shared by everyone) or private (available only to the relevant
individual).
How far does this conclusion extend to social
contexts where decision makers are interested
partiesin the actions of others?Public information has attributesthat make it a double-edged
instrument.On the one hand, it conveys information on the underlying fundamentals,but it
also serves as a focal point for the beliefs of the
group as a whole. When prevailingconventional
wisdom or consensus impinge on people's
decision-making process, public information
may serve to reinforce their impact on individual decisions to the detrimentof private information. The "sunspots"literaturehas explored
this latter theme by emphasizing the ability of
public signals to serve as a coordinationdevice.
Even when the signal is "extrinsic"and has no
direct bearing on the underlyingfundamentals,
its very public nature allows full play to selffulfilling beliefs in determiningeconomic outcomes. Costas Azariadis (1981) and David
Cass and Karl Shell (1983) are early references.
Michael Woodford(1990) and PeterHowitt and
R. Preston McAfee (1992) bolster the case for
sunspot equilibria by showing how they may
arise in the context of individual learning, and
how they arise from a variety of economic
mechanisms.
However, while the extrinsic nature of sunspots allows a clean expression of the coordination role of public information,it fails to do
justice to the fact that public informationdoes,

* Morris:Cowles Foundation,Yale University,P.O. Box
208281, New Haven,CT 06520 (e-mail:stephen.morris@yale.
edu); Shin: London School of Economics, HoughtonStreet,
London WC2A 2AE U. K. (e-mail: h.s.shin@lse.ac.uk).
This paper was previously circulated under the title "The
CNBC Effect: Welfare Effects of Public Information."We
are gratefulto JuanDubra,Tom Sargent,FrankHeinemann,
MathiasDewatripont,Takashi Ui, and Heinz Herrmannfor
theircomments on earlierversions of this paper,and to three
referees for their encouragement and guidance. The first
version of this paperwas preparedfor the Bundesbank/CFS
of MonetaryPolicy,"Frankfurt,
conferenceon "Transparency
October2000. We also thankparticipantsat seminarsat the
Bank of England, BIS, IMF, Pompeu Fabra, ECARES,
Essex, Cambridge,and the Bank of Japanfor theircomments.
1521

1522

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

in general, convey information on the fundamentals, and that such informationwill be of
value to decision makers. Howitt and McAfee
note with irony that William Jevons (1884),
who introduced sunspots to economics, very
much believed them to be partof the fundamentals of an agricultural economy. Indeed, for
policy makers in a variety of contexts, it is the
fundamentalsinformation conveyed by public
disclosures that receives all the emphasis. For
instance,the proposalsto revise the 1988 accord
on bank capital adequacyplace great emphasis
on the disclosures by banks that allow market
discipline to operate more effectively (Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, 1999b); it
is no less than the thirdof three "pillars"of the
proposed accord. More generally, the policy
response to the recent turbulence in international financial markets has been to call for
increased transparency through disclosures
from governmentsand other official bodies, as
well as from the majormarketparticipants(see
InternationalMonetaryFund, 1998; Basel Committee, 1999a). Thus, assessing the social value
of public information entails recognizing its
dual role-- of conveying fundamentalsinformation as well as serving as a focal point for
beliefs. Our task in this paper is to assess the
social value of public informationwhen allowing for this dual role.
Our investigation centers on a model that is
reminiscent of Keynes's beauty contest example, and which also shareskey featureswith the
"island economy" model of Edmund Phelps
(1970) and RobertE. Lucas, Jr. (1972, 1973). A
large populationof agents have access to public
and private informationon the underlyingfundamentals,and aim to take actions appropriate
to the underlyingstate. But they also engage in
a zero-sum race to second-guess the actions of
other individuals in which a player's prize depends on the distance between his own action
and the actions of others. The smaller is the
distance, the greateris the prize. This impartsa
coordinationmotive to the decision makers as
well as the desire to match the fundamentals.
When there is perfect informationconcerning
the underlying state, the unique equilibriumin
the game between the agents also maximizes
social welfare. However, when there is imperfect information, the welfare effects of increased public informationare more equivocal:

DECEMBER2002

(i) When the agents have no private information-so thatthe only source of information
for the agents is the public informationthen greater precision of the public information always increases social welfare.
(ii) However, if the agents have access to some
private information, it is not always the
case that greaterprecision of public information is desirable. Over some ranges, increased precision of public informationis
detrimental to welfare. Specifically, the
greaterthe precision of the agents' private
information, the more likely it is that increased provision of public information
lowers social welfare.
The detrimentaleffect of public information
arises from the fact that the coordinationmotive
entails placing too much weight on the public
signal relative to weights that would be used by
the social planner.The impact of public information is large, and so is the impact of any
noise in the public signal that inevitably creeps
in. In short, although public informationis extremely effective in influencing actions, the
dangerarises from the fact that it is too effective
at doing so. Agents overreactto public information, and thereby magnify the damage done by
any noise. Our objective is to show how such
"overreaction"need not be predicated on any
wishful thinking or irrationalityon the part of
agents.
The dilemmaposed by the potentialfor overreaction to public informationis a familiar one
to policy makers that command high visibility
in the market. Central bank officials have
learnedto be wary of public utterancesthatmay
unduly influence financial markets, and have
developed their own respective strategies for
communicatingwith the market.In formulating
their disclosure policies, centralbanks and governmentagencies face a numberof interrelated
issues concerning how much they should disclose, in what form, and how often. Frequent
and timely disseminationwould aid the decisionmaking process by putting currentinformation
at the disposal of all economic agents, but this
has to be set against the fact that provisional
estimates are likely to be revised with the benefit of hindsight. By their nature, economic
statistics are imperfect measurementsof sometimes imprecise concepts, and no government

VOL.92 NO. 5

MORRISAND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION

agency or central bank can guarantee flawless
information. This raises legitimate concerns
about the publication of preliminaryor incomplete data, since the benefit of early release may
be more than outweighed by the disproportionate impact of any error.This trade-offbetween
timely but noisy informationand slow but more
accurate information is a familiar theme, as
witnessed by the debate in Japanabout whether
preliminaryGDP figures should be published.
Australia moved from a monthly calendar in
reportingits balance of trade figures to a quarterly calendarbecause it was felt that the noise
in the monthly statistics were injecting too
much volatility into the price signals from financial markets.1The flaws in the U.K.'s earnings data have been credited with provoking
unjustifiably tight credit conditions in the
United Kingdom in the spring and summer of
1998.2 The challenge for central banks and
otherofficial bodies is to strikethe rightbalance
between providingtimely and frequentinformation to the private sector so as to allow it to
pursue its goals, but to recognize the inherent
limitations in any disclosure and to guard
against the potential damage done by noise.
Central bank disclosures in the conduct of
monetarypolicy have become especially important in recent years as monetary targeting has
given way to interestrate targeting.In the latter
regime, monetarypolicy works mainly through
variables that are driven by market expectations, such as asset prices, long-dated yields,
and exchange rates. The link from the very
short-terminterest rates that are controlled by
the central bank to these financial variables is
through market expectations, where these expectations are, in turn, influenced by central
bank disclosures. Alan Blinder (1998) and
Blinder et al. (2001) argue that this expectational mechanismworks best in an environment
of central bank transparency.Since marketexpectations are shaped in part by the future
course of action of the central bank, monetary
policy is more effective if it is more effective in
coordinatingmarketexpectations.
However, if the effectiveness of the coordi-

1 We are grateful to Philip Lowe for this example.
See, for instance, "Garbage in, Garbage out." The
Economist, October 15, 1998.
2

1523

nating role of central bank disclosures has the
potential to do good, then by the same token it
also has the potentialto do ill if expectationsare
coordinatedaway from the fundamentals.Arguably, central bank intentions are something on
which the centralbankershave very good information, and so the coordinatingrole of disclosures would be effective in aligning beliefs to
fundamentals. On other matters, such as the
appropriatelevel of equity prices, it is far from
clear that central bankers are better placed to
judge. Nevertheless,their coordinatingrole will
imply a disproportionateimpact of their judgments on the final outcome, whetherfor good or
ill. If their judgment is faulty, the consequent
detrimentalimpact will be that much larger.
Before turningto our analysis, it is important
to place our contributionin the broadercontext
of the literatureon public information.As well
as the sunspots literature already alluded to,
there are several bodies of work that should be
borne in mind. The literatureon herding and
informationcascades focuses on the inefficiencies both in the generation of new information
when free-ridingdecision makersfail to engage
in socially valuableexperimentation,and also in
the dissemination of informationwhen private
informationfails to find an expression through
the actions of decision makers.Abhijit V. Banerjee (1992) and Sushil Bikhchandani et al.
(1992) are early references. Henry Cao and
David Hirshleifer (2000) develop a model that
allows full play to both types of inefficiency.
The insights from this literature are complementaryto that gained from ours. In both cases,
access to noisy public information results in
socially valuableprivateinformationbeing lost.
However, the mechanisms are very different.
Jack Hirshleifer's(1971) paperis an instance
of how public information may be damaging
because it removes insurance possibilities.
There is also a large literaturein industrialorganization and related strategic contexts where
the smoothingeffects of uncertaintyaffect players' actions. When the unique equilibrium is
inefficient, the smoothing effect of uncertainty
may improve welfare. Siew Hong Teoh (1997)
shows an instanceof this in a game of voluntary
contribution to public goods. Michael Raith
(1996) reviews a literatureon private and public information in oligopoly. Simon Messner
and Xavier Vives (2000) examine the welfare

1524

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

propertiesof a rationalexpectationsequilibrium
in which the price serves as a public signal of
the distributionof costs among producers,and
show how this informationmay be detrimental
to welfare.
The "global games" literaturehas examined
the impact of public informationin binary action coordinationgames where agentshave both
private and public signals about some underlying state (see Morris and Shin, 1999, 2000;
ChristianHellwig, 2000; ChristinaMetz, 2000).
Here, if privateinformationis sufficientlyaccurate relative to public information, there is a
unique equilibriumin a setting where multiple
equilibriawould exist with common knowledge
of fundamentals.The comparativestatics of the
precision of public informationreveal complex
effects that arises from the interplay between
better fundamentals information and shifts in
strategic uncertainty.One virtue of the simple
model proposedin this paperis thatequilibrium
is unique irrespectiveof the parameters,so that
we are able to examine the impact of public
signals and obtain cleaner welfare implications.
The plan for the rest of the paper is as follows. We introduceour model in the next section, and solve for the unique equilibrium,
highlightingalong the way the distinctivechannels throughwhich public informationoperates.
The core of the paper is Section II, which examines the welfare effects of shifts in the precision of public information. A number of
extensions and variations of our model are
discussed in Section III, although the details
of these extensions are presented separatelyin
an Appendix,availableonline at the AEA web
The
site (http://www.aeaweb.org/aer/contents).
purposeof these extensions is both to demonstratethe robustnessof our main conclusions to
changes in the modeling assumptions,but also
to delve deeperinto the underlyingmechanisms
for the theoreticalresults. We conclude by pursuing some of the policy issues on disclosures
further.

DECEMBER2002

agents, indexedby the unit interval[0, 1]. Agent
i chooses an action ai E fR,and we write a for
the action profile over all agents. The payoff
function for agent i is given by
(1)

ui(a, 0)
-(1

-

0)2-

r)(ai-

r(Li-

L)

where r is a constant, with 0 < r < 1 and
(aj - ai)2dj

Li
0o

L-

Ljdj.
o

The loss function for individual i has two components.The first componentis a standardquadraticloss in the distancebetweenthe underlying
state 0 and his action ai. The second component
is the "beauty contest" term. The loss Li is
increasing in the average distance between i's
action and the action profile of the whole population. There is an externality in which an
individualtries to second-guess the decisions of
other individualsin the economy. The parameter r gives the weight on this second-guessing
motive. The larger is r, the more severe is the
externality. Moreover, this spillover effect is
socially inefficient in that it is of a zero-sum
nature. In the game of second-guessing, the
winnersgain at the expense of the losers. Social
welfare, defined as the (normalized)average of
individual utilities, is

W

1
)
0)(a, 1 -r

r1
u(a,

0) di

N0

-

(ai -

0)2 di

I. Model
Our model is based on a game that induces
strategic behavior in the spirit of the "beauty
contest" example mentioned in Keynes's General Theory (1936). There is a continuum of

so that a social planner who cares only about
social welfare seeks to keep all agents' actions
close to the state 0. From the point of view of
agent i, however, his action is determinedby
the first-ordercondition:

MORRISAND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION

VOL.92 NO. 5

(2)

ai = (1 - r)Ei(O) + rEi(a)

where a is the average action in the population
(i.e., a = f j ajdj) and Ei() is the expectation
operator for player i. Thus each agent puts
positive weight on the expected state and the
expected actions of others. Note, however, that
if 0 is common knowledge, the equilibriumentails ai = 0 for all i, so that social welfare is
maximized at equilibrium. So, when there is
perfect information,thereis no conflict between
individually rational actions and the socially
optimal actions. We now examine the case
where 0 is not known with certainty.
A. Public InformationBenchmark
Consider the case where agents face uncertainty concerning 0, but they have access to
public information.The state 0 is drawnfrom an
(improper)uniformprior over the real line, but
the agents observe a public signal
(3)

y=

+rl

where 7 is normallydistributed,independentof 0,
with mean zero and varianceo2&.
The signaly is
"public"in the sense thatthe actualrealizationof
y is commonknowledgeto all agents.Theychoose
their actions after observingthe realizationof y.
The expected payoff of agent i at the time of
decisionis thengivenby theconditional
expectation:
(4)

E(uily)

where E( * |y) is the common expectation operator. Conditional on y, both agents believe
that 0 is distributednormally with mean y and
variance o&2.Hence, the best reply of i is

for all i; expected welfare, conditional on 0, is
E(WI 0)

(5)

E(ajly) dj

0)21 0]

-E[(y2

=

Thus,the smallerthe noise in thepublicsignal,the
higheris social welfare.We will now contrasthis
with the generalcase in whichagentshaveprivate
informationas well as public information.
B. Private and Public Information
Consider now the case where, in addition to
the public signal y, agent i observes the realization of a private signal:
(7)

Xi =

0 +

ei

where noise terms si of the continuumpopulation are normally distributedwith zero mean
and varianceo<, independentof 0 and r1,so that
E(Sisj) = 0 for i : j. The privatesignal of one
agent is not observableby the others.This is the
sense in which these signals are private.
As before, the agents' decisions are made
after observing the respective realizations of
their privatesignals as well as the realizationof
the public signal. Denote by
(8)

ai(li)

the decisionby agent i as a functionof his informationset Ii. The informationset Ii consistsof the
pair(y, xi) thatcapturesall the informationavailable to i at the time of decision.3
Let us denote by a the precision of the public
information,and denote by j3 the precision of
the private information,where

1

ai(y) = (1 - r)E(Oly) + r

1525

(9)

a

=

1
2

77

' o

1
where ai(y) denotes the action taken by agent i
as a function of y. Since E(O0y) = y and since
the strategies of both agents are measurable
with respect to y, we have E(ajly) = aj(y), so
that in the unique equilibrium,
(6)

ai(y) = y

/~-

2.

3 The notation in
(8) makes explicit that the strategy of
agent i in the imperfect-informationgame is a function that
maps the information IJ to the action ai. For any given
strategy,ai is thereforea randomvariablethatis measurable
on the partitiongeneratedby Ii.

1526

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

Then, based on both private and public information, agent i's expected value of 0 is

K=

13(rK + 1 - r)
a+/3

ay + f3xi

(10)

a+/3

from
which we can solve for

where we have used the shorthandEi(') to denote the conditional expectationE( * |Ii).
C. Linear Equilibrium

aj(I) = KX+ (1 -K)y.

(11)

Then agent i's conditionalestimate of the average expected action across all agents is
+

(ay ++
Kay
+ f /) -+ (1-)-K) K)y
E^-a)=
Ei(a) =

-

Xi +

(21)

(1

-

a+1

)

Thus agent i's optimal action is
(12)
= (1 - r)Ei(0)

K

+ rEi(a)

KB )

The argumentpresentedabove establishesthe
existenceof a linearequilibrium.We will follow
this by showing(througha "bruteforce"solution
method)thatthe linearequilibriumwe have identified is the uniqueequilibrium.In doing so, we
establishthe role of higher-orderexpectationsin
this model.In particular,we note that,if someone
observes a public signal that is worse than her
privatesignal,then her expectationof others'expectationsof 0 is lower thanher expectationof 0
(i.e., it is closer to the public signal than her
own expectation).This in turnimplies that if we
look at nth orderexpectationsabout0 (i.e., someone's expectationof others' expectationsof others' expectationsof [n times] of 0), then this
approachesthe public signal as n becomes large.
Higher-orderexpectationsdependonly on public
signals.
Recall that player i's best response is to set

+

I
+t1-

(1 - r)Ei(O)

+ rEi(a).

Substitutingand writing E(0) for the average
expectation of 0 across agents we have

K+B
I

Xi
+ 1 -

3(rK

a+X

a = (1 - r)Ei(0) + (1 - r)rEi(E(0))
+ (1 - r)r2E(E2())

r)

a+3

V[

r) + a

D. Uniquenessof Equilibrium

(14)
(3(rK + 1-

-

ay +3(l - r)Xi
,~a+/3(1-r)

(13)

ai=
+
(= 1- r) ay
xiaya + px,\

+r

P(l

Thus, the equilibriumaction ai is given by

We will now solve for the unique equilibrium.We do this in two steps. We first solve for
a linearequilibriumin which actions are a linear
function of signals. We will follow this with a
demonstrationthat this linear equilibriumis the
unique equilibrium.Thus, as the first step, suppose that the populationas a whole is following
a linear strategyof the form

ai(i)

DECEMBER2002

r))

(1 - r) E
y.

Comparing coefficients in (11) and (12), we
thereforehave

+ ...

rkEi(Ek(0)).

k=O

In order to evaluate this expression, and check
that the infinite sum is bounded, we must solve

VOL
92NO.
5 AND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION
MORRIS

VOL 92 NO. 5

explicitly for Ej(E( 0)). Recall that player i's
expected value of 0 is

and

?
E 0
=ay f3/3xi
a+

+f3O
~~ay

1

E(0) =

Ei(0)di

+ ijk+l1Xi

= 1-gk?l)y

thleaverageexpectationof 0 acrossagentsis
Thbus,

+ f3xi)

k

ayky

k~(E()) =(1

(15)

1527
12

which proves Lemma 1. Now substituting the
expression from Lemma 1 into equation (14),
we obtain

a=
a=

(1

r) I

rk[(l

-

? ,llk+lXi]

tLk?l)y

k =O

Now player i's expectation of the average expectation of 0 across agents is
I

Ei (E(0))=Eik

? 0

(ay

a+ 3

-

g(l
r) y +
I
rg

g(l
I -

-

r)

rg

Xi

ay + 131-r)xi
a?f3(1r)

ay+ 0 a(yf3

This is exactly the unique linear equilibrium

i)

we identified earlier.
_((a

E. Lucas-Phelps Island EconomyModel

+f32X~

+f3)2-f2)y

+1)

-(a

and the average expectation of the average expectation of 0 is
E

=

E(E(O))

(a

ys=b[ai-Eia]

+f320

_((a +(3)2-(32)y
2

?13)

More generally, we have the following lemma.
LEMMAl1: For any k, E()(1~
=

gkOadE-k(o))

k+1)
k

(1

We conclude this section by drawingout the
parallels between the equilibriumin our model
and featuresof the celebratedLucas-Phelps"island economy" model.4 To do this, let each
index i refer an island whose supply ys of the
single consumptiongood is given by

where ai is the price on island i, a-is the average
price across all islands, and b > 0 is a supply
parameter.The demandyd' on island i is given
by

)+

?~k+

I

c[Ei(6) -ai]

where ji = f31(a + 13).
PROOF:
The proof is by induction on k. We know
from (15) that the lemma holds for k = 1.
Suppose that it holds for k - 1. Then,
-(k l(O))

so
Ek(0)

=

where 0 is the money supply and c > 0 is the
slope parameter for demand. Market-clearing
then implies
ai= (1 -

r)Ej(0) ? rEi(ai)

11~k)y+ p.kXi

=(1

-

(1 -

gk)y ? W o

4We are indebted to Tom Sargent and to R. Preston
McAfee for pointing out this connection.

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

1528

where r = bl(b + c), so that we have the
equation (2) that characterizesequilibrium in
the beauty contest model. A questionthat arises
in this context is how the profile of prices { ai
across the economy are affected by the shifts in
informationon money supply. Does greaterinformation precision on the money supply 0
mean that the prices { ai are tied closer to the
fundamentals0? Phelps (1983) posed this question in the context of an economy in which the
centralbank is determinedto combat the inflation expectations of the private sector agents,
and noted that the answer depends on subtle
ways on the, interaction of beliefs between
agents. Our analysis below may be regardedas
a formal solution of the original problemposed
by Phelps in his 1983 paper.
A disanalogy between our model and the
island economy is that there is no clear formal
counterpartto the social welfare function in the
latter.For this reason, we preferto conduct our
main analysis within the terms of reference of
the beautycontest. Nevertheless,even withouta
formal welfare criterion, the distance between
the set of prices {ai} across islands and the
underlyingfundamentalsgiven by 0 (the money
supply) will be of some interest. When this
distance is written as

(ai

-

0)2 di

o

then the resultsthatfollow in the next section on
the welfare effects of public informationhave a
direct bearing on the question of what effect
greaterpublic informationon the money supply
has on the tightness of the relationshipbetween
prices and money supply.
In general, any welfare conclusions will depend on the desirability of having the price
levels aligned with the "fundamentals."In a
world where only relative prices matter, the
price levels per se will not be of much consequence. But in a world with incomplete information where monetary policy works through
the expectationsof the market(as suggested by
Blinderet al. [2001], mentionedin the introduction), price levels convey informationabout future financial conditions and hence their
tightnesswith the underlyingfundamentalsmay
matter. If so, the distance between the price

DECEMBER2002

levels and fundamentalsmay have some welfare
consequences. However, the analysis of the
welfare consequences of our beauty contest
game can be undertakenmore systematically
thanksto the explicit welfare function. We turn
to this in the following section. A more systematic discussion of alternativewelfare criteriais
presentedin the separateAppendixto our paper,
available on the AEA web site.
II. WelfareEffect of Public Information
We are now ready to addressthe main question of the paper.How is welfare affected by the
precisions of the agents' signals? In particular,
will welfare be increasingin the precision a of
the public signal? From the solution for ai, we
can solve for the equilibriumstrategiesin terms
of the basic randomvariables 0, rj, and {e }.
(16)

ai = 0 +

+

a+

(-r)

3(l - r)

If r = 0, the two types of noise (private and
public) would be given weights that are commensuratewith theirprecision.Thatis, r would
be given weight equal to its relative precision
a/(a + 83), while Ei would be given weight
equal to its relative precision /3(a + /3). However, the weights in (16) deviate from this. The
noise in the public signal is given relatively
more weight, and the noise in the private signal
is given relatively less weight. This feature reflects the coordinationmotive of the agents, and
reflects the disproportionateinfluence of the
public signal in influencingthe agents' actions.
The magnitudeof this effect is greaterwhen r is
large. What effect does this have on welfare?
Expected welfare at 0 is given by
(17) E[W(a, 0)10]
a2E(rn2) + 2(1 -r)2[E(e2)]
[a + /3(1 - r)]2
a +

(1 - r)2
+
3(1
-r)]2
[a

By examining (17), we can answer the comparative statics questions concerning the effect of

\

MORRISAND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION

VOL.92 NO. 5

increased precision of private and public
information.
Welfare is always increasingin the precision
of the private signals. We can see this by differentiating(17) with respect to 3, the precision
of the private signals. We have
(18)

1529

0

aE(WI0)

,\

We \(Wl)

ine

+ r)a + ( - r)2j3]
>
+
3(1 -r)]3
[a

(1 - r)[(l

Thus, increasedprecision of privateinformation
enhances welfare unambiguously. The same
cannot be said of the effect of increased precision of the public signal. The derivativeof (17)
with respect to a is
9E(Wl0)

(19)

a - (2r - 1)(1 - r)3
+

[

(1 - r)]3

so that
aE(WI0)
aa
doe

(20)

O

if and only if

(
a-

1
(2r-

1)(1 - r)

When r > 0.5, there are ranges of the parameters where increasedprecision of public information is detrimental to welfare. Increased
precision of public information is beneficial
only when the privateinformationof the agents
is not very precise. If the agents have access to
very precise information(so that , is high), then
any increase in the precision of the public information will be harmful. Thus, as a rule of
thumb, when the private sector agents are already very well informed, the official sector
would be well advised not to make public any
more information,unless they could be confident thatthey can provide public informationof
very great precision. If a social planner were
choosing ex ante the optimalprecision of public
informationand increasingthe precisionof public informationis costly, then corer solutions at
a = 0 may be common.

aCE

FIGURE1. SOCIALWELFARECONTOURS

Even if greaterprecision of public information can be obtained relatively cheaply, there
may be technical constraintsin achieving precision beyond some upperbound. For instance,
the social plannermay be restrictedto choosing
a from some given interval [0, a]. In this case,
even if the choice of a entails no costs, we will
see a "bang-bang"solution to the choice of
optimal a in which the social optimum entails
either providing no public information at all
(i.e., setting a = 0), or providingthe maximum
feasible amountof public information(i.e., setting a = a). The better informedis the private
sector, the higher is the hurdlerate of precision
of public informationthat would make it welfare enhancing.
Figure 1 illustratesthe social welfarecontours
in (a, 3)-space.The curves are the set of points
that satisfyE(WO0)= C, for constantsC. As can
be seen fromFigure1, when ( > a/[(2r - 1)(1 r)], the social welfare contours are upwardsloping, indicatingthat welfare is decreasing in
the precisionof public information.
What is the intuitionfor this result? Observe
that equation (13) can be rewrittenas
(21)

ai=

ay + 3(1 - r)xi
(-r)
a

+

(1-r)

ay + 3xi

a+/3

+ (y - xi)
Pr

( c +

\

a + ((1

- r)'

This equation shows well the added impact of

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

1530

public informationin determiningthe actions of
the agents. In additionto its role in forming the
conditional expectation of 0, there is an additional (positive) term involving the public signal y, while there is a correspondingnegative
term involving the private signal xi. Thus, the
agents "overreact"to the public signal while
suppressingthe informationcontent of the private signal. The impact of the noise 'r in the
public signal is given more of an impact in the
agents' decisions than it deserves.
Perhaps a more illuminating intuition is obtained by considering the role of higher-order
expectations in our model. This intuition also
brings out well the unease expressed by Phelps
(1983) (justified, it turns out) concerning the
overly simplistic treatment of iterated expectations. The key to our result is the fact that
the "average expectations" operator E(.) violates the "law" of iterated expectations. In our
model,
E(0) + E(E(0))

(22)

Ei(O).

Ei(E(O)) -

These propertiesare key,_sinceif we had equality between E(0) and E(E(0)) and between
Ei(E(O)) and E(0) then all higher-order-level
expectations collapse to the first order, so that
(14) would become
oc

E,(E(0))(1

- r) E

rk= Ei(E(0))

k=O

= Ei(0)

which coincides with the socially efficient action. Thus, it is this failureof the law of iterated
expectations for the expectationsoperatorsthat
injects genuine strategic uncertainty into the
problem, and which entails the overreactionto
public information.The importance of shared
knowledge in the promulgationof policy was
emphasized by Phelps in his 1983 paper, and
our results could be seen as giving this assertion formal backing. More recently, Woodford (2001) has argued that the persistence
exhibited by many macroeconomic time series can be explained by the relative inertia of
higher-orderbeliefs as compared to first-order

DECEMBER2002

beliefs. This feature of higher-orderbeliefs is
a consequence of the underweighting of private information.
Arguably,the role of sharedknowledge goes
far beyond economics. Michael S. Y. Chwe
(2001) argues for the importance of shared
knowledge in a wide variety of social settings.
For example, he documents the high per unit
cost of reaching a viewer when the audience is
large, and shows that goods that have a prominent "social" dimension are more likely to receive the benefit of such high-cost advertising.
Having establishedthe possibility that public
information may be detrimental,we now address a numberof extensions and variationsof
our model. The purpose is both to gauge the
robustnessof our conclusions, and also to delve
deeper into the results.
III. Extensions and Variations

The linear-normalsolution of our model is an
attractively simple illustration of our main
ideas, but the general conclusions are robust to
alternative specifications. In the separate Appendix to this paper (available online at the
AEA web site), we illustrateseveral extensions
and variations.The first example is for a model
where signals have two realizations, in which
we show overreactionto public informationrelative to the welfare benchmark.Indeed, the key
result that increasingly higher-order expectations of a random variable converges to the
expectation with respect to public information
only is a robust feature of differentialinformation economies (see Dov Samet, 1998). Thus,
neither the normalitynor the improperprior is
essential for our results.
A more immediate question is how our results vary with alternativespecification of the
payoffs. In our model, the overreactionto public
information arises from the positive spillover
effects of individual actions. What if actions
were strategic substitutes,ratherthan strategic
complements?The solution for the unique equilibriumcan be obtainedfrom the same methods
used above. Suppose that the best-reply function for i is given by
a,

Ei(0)-

pE,(a)

for some constantp > 0. Then the unique linear

MORRISAND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION

VOL.92 NO. 5

equilibriumcan be obtainedfrom the method of
comparingcoefficients to yield
1
(23)

ai

l+

/(1
p

+ p)

deviationof the aggregate level of activity from
the true state 0. Considera finite player version
of our frameworkwhere the principal's objective is to minimize

a + p3(1 + p) Xi
a

The symmetric-informationbenchmarksolution
is when ai = aj for all i, j which gives ai =
Ei(a), so that
(24)

ai =1

(a1 -

0)2 + (a2

so thatthe objective for the principalis to set the
average action as close as possible to 0. Suppose that all agents follow a linear strategyand
set their action accordingto

+

p

(/3xi+ay)

ai = KXi + (1 -

a

Comparing (23) and (24), the introductionof
strategicsubstitutabilityimplies thatagents now
overreact to private informationxi relative to
the symmetric-informationbenchmark.Players
accentuate their differences in order to avoid
playing similar actions to other players.
An early paperby Roy Radner(1962) gives a
nice instance of this.5He examines the problem
where two membersof a team aim to minimize
the loss function
-

aj-

\

( + p) y

+ a +

1

1531

0)2 + 2q(al

-

0)(a2

-

K)y

wherey is the public signal, andxi is i's private
signal. Then the expected loss for the principal
at 0 is
I

E

-

2

n

K

-

n

-

(

xj+

K)y -

0

0

j=l

_(

=-E

> Ln
-

E j + (1-

K)

0

j=l

0).

In otherwords,the loss is increasingin the product of the two errors.This gives rise to strategic
betweenthe two teammembers,so
substitutability
that the optimaldecisions put less weight on the
publicinformationandmoreweighton the private
informationas comparedto the individualdecision. The choice of output in a Courot model
examined by Robert M. Townsend (1978) also
falls into this categoryof strategicsubstitutes.
As well as alternativepayoff functionsfor the
individualplayers, we could also consider alternative forms of the welfare function. For instance, if we pursue our macroeconomic
interpretationof the model as the interaction
between a central bank and the private sector
agents, one naturalway to formulate the principal's objective function is in terms of the

5
We are grateful to Takashi Ui for this reference. Ui
(2001) shows thatRadner'smodel as well as our own model
here can be analyzed as Bayesian potential games.

K2

(1 -

n/3

a

K)2

The value of K that minimizes the principal's
loss is
no
a + 3np'

Note that when n is large, the principal would
like the agents to put small weight on the public
signal, and base their decision largely on the
private signal. Whereasthe noise terms { si in
the private signals of the agents tend to cancel
each other out, the noise term r1in the public
signal remainsin place irrespectiveof the number of agents. Thus, if the welfare function
places weight on some aggregate activity variable, the overweighting of the public signal by
the agents would cause an even greater social
welfare loss. This example is clearly rather

1532

THEAMERICANECONOMICREVIEW

simplistic in the way that it exploits the independently and identically distributed(i.i.d.) natureof noise terms.More realistically,we might
expect that private signals have sharedraw ingredientsacross the populationthatimpartcomplex correlation structures across private
signals. As a simple example, private signals
that have the structure xi = 0 + ~ + ei, where

( is a common noise term that enters into all
players' private signals will impartcorrelations
into the privatesignals, even if we condition on
the true state 0. In the online Appendix we
explore two issues in some detail:

(i) We explore alternativespecificationsof the
welfare function and determine conditions
thatgive rise to the resultthatgreaterpublic
informationis welfare decreasing.
(ii) We present a general analysis of the two
playerversion of our model where the players can observe many signals, where the
signals are multivariatenormalwith a general correlation structure.In this context,
we show that correlated noise terms give
rise to qualitativelysimilareffects as in the
benchmarkmodel.
IV. ConcludingRemarksand Discussion
Public informationhas attributesthat make it
a double-edged instrument for public policy.
Whilst it is very effective at influencing the
actions of agents whose actions are strategic
complements, the trouble is that it is too effective in doing so. Agents overreact to public
information,and hence any unwarrantedpublic
news or mistaken disclosure may cause great
damage. The underweightingof private information may be even worse if the acquisitionof
informationis costly for the individual agents.
Given the diminished role of private information in the game, the ex ante value of such
information will be devalued, as would any
incentive to acquire such information if it is
costly.
Commentatorssuch as Paul Krugman(2001)
have raised the possibility that the parameterr
in our model-indicating the strength of the
strategic motive-may have become larger in
recent years. Commentingon the recent downturn in economic activity in the United States,
he suggests that

DECEMBER2002

firms making investment decisions are
startingto emulate the hair-triggerbehavior of financial investors. That means a
growing part of the economy may be
startingto act like a financialmarket,with
all that implies-like the potential for
bubbles and panics. One could argue that
far from makingthe economy more stable,
the rapid responses of today's corporations make their investmentin equipment
and software vulnerable to the kind of
self-fulfilling pessimism that used to be
possibleonly for investmentin paperassets.
In terms of the framework of our paper, the
increased vulnerabilitymentioned by Krugman
is an entirely rational response by individual
actors, but is socially inefficient.
The challenge for central banks and other
public organizationsis to strike the right balance between providing timely and frequent
informationto the private sector so as to allow
it to pursue its goals, but to recognize the inherentlimitationsin any disclosureand to guard
against the potential damage done by noise.
This is a difficult balancing act at the best of
times, but this task is likely to become even
harder. As central banks' activities impinge
more and more on the actions of marketparticipants, the latter have reciprocatedby stepping
up their surveillanceof centralbanks' activities
and pronouncements. The intense spotlight
trainedon the fledgling EuropeanCentralBank
and the ECB's delicate relationship with the
press and private sector marketparticipantsillustrate well the difficulties faced by policy
makers.
In the highly sensitized world of today's financial markets populated with Fed watchers,
economic analysts, and other commentatorsof
the economic scene, disclosure policy assumes
great importance.Our results suggest that private sources of informationmay actually crowd
out the public informationby renderingthe public information detrimental to the policy
maker's goals. The heightened sensitivities of
the market could magnify any noise in the
public information to such a large extent that
public information ends up by causing more
harm than good. If the information provider
anticipates this effect, then the consequence
of the heightened sensitivities of the market is
to push it into reducing the precision of the

VOL. 92 NO. 5

MORRISAND SHIN: SOCIALVALUEOF PUBLIC INFORMATION

public signal. In effect, private and public
information end up being substitutes, rather
than being cumulative.

1533

Howitt, Peter and McAfee,R. Preston."Animal
Spirits." American Economic Review, June
1992, 82(3), pp. 493-507.
International Monetary Fund. Report of the

REFERENCES
Azariadis, Costas. "Self-Fulfilling Prophesies."
Journal of Economic Theory, December
1981, 25(3), pp. 380-96.
Banerjee,Abhijit V. "A Simple Model of Herd
Behavior." QuarterlyJournal of Economics,
August 1992, 107(3), pp. 797-817.
Basel Committeeon Banking Supervision.Recommendationsfor public disclosure of trading and derivatives activities of banks and
securitiesfirms. Basel: Bank for International
Settlements, 1999a.
. A new capital adequacy framework.
Basel CommitteePublicationsNo. 50. Basel:
Bank for International Settlements, 1999b
(http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs50.pdf).
Bikhchandani, Sushil; Hirshleifer, David and
Welch,Ivo. "A Theoryof Fads, Fashion,Custom, and Cultural Change in Informational
Cascades." Journal of Political Economy,
October 1992, 100(5), pp. 992-1026.
Blinder, Alan. Central banking in theory and
practice. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
1998.
Blinder, Alan; Goodhart, Charles; Hildebrand,
Philipp;Lipton,David and Wyplosz,Charles.
How do central banks talk? Geneva Report
on the World Economy 3, Centre for Economic Policy Research, London, 2001.
Cao, H. Henry and Hirshleifer,David. "Conversation, ObservationalLearningand Informational Cascades"WorkingPaperNo. 2001-5,
Ohio State University, 2000.
Cass, David and Shell, Karl. "Do Sunspots Matter?" Journal of Political Economy, April
1983, 91(2), pp. 193-227.
Chwe,MichaelS. Y. Rationalritual:Culture,coordination,and commonknowledge.Princeton,
NJ: PrincetonUniversityPress, 2001.
Hellwig,Christian."Public Informationand the
Multiplicity of Equilibria in Coordination
Games." Working paper, London School of
Economics, 2000.
Hirshleifer,Jack. "ThePrivateand Social Value
of Informationand the Reward to Inventive
Activity." American Economic Review, September 1971, 61(4), pp. 561-74.

Managing Director to the Interim Committee on Strengthening the Architecture
of the International Monetary System,
1998

(http://www.imf.org/external/np/

omd/100198.htm).
Jevons,William.Investigationsin currency and
finance. London: Macmillan, 1884.
Keynes, John Maynard. The general theory of
employment, interest, and money. London:
Macmillan, 1936.
Krugman,Paul. "Out of the Loop." New York
Times, March 4, 2001, Sec. 4, p. 15.
Lucas, Robert E., Jr. "Expectations and the Neu-

tralityof Money." Journal of Economic Theory, April 1972, 4(2), pp. 103-24.
. "Some International Evidence on
Output-Inflation Tradeoffs." American
Economic Review, June 1973, 63(3), pp.
326-34.

Messner, Simon and Vives, Xavier. "Infor-

mational and Economic Efficiency in REE
with AsymmetricInformation."Unpublished
manuscript,IAE, Barcelona, 2000.
Metz,Christina."PrivateandPublic Information
in Self-Fulfilling CurrencyCrises."Working
paper, University of Kassel, 2000.
Morris, Stephen and Shin, Hyun Song. "Coordi-

nation Risk and the Price of Debt." Cowles
Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1241,
1999; forthcoming in European Economic
Review, 2003.
"Global Games: Theory and Applications." Invited paper for the Eighth World
Congress of the Econometric Society, Seattle, 2000.
Phelps, Edmund S. "Introduction,"in E. S.
Phelps et al., eds., Microeconomicfoundations of employmentand informationtheory.
New York: Norton, 1970, pp. 1-23.
. "The Trouble with Rational Expections and the Problem of Inflation Stabilization," in R. Frydmanand E. S. Phelps, eds.,
Individual forecasting and aggregate outcomes. New York: Cambridge University
Press, 1983, pp. 31-40.
Radner, Roy. "Team Decision Problems." An-

nals of MathematicalStatistics, 1962, 33(3),
pp. 857-81.

1534

THEAMERICANJEC(3NOMICREVIEW

Raith, Michael."A General Model of Information Sharing in Oligopoly." Journal of Economic Theory,October1996, 71(1), pp. 26088.
Samet, Dov. "IteratedExpectations and Common Priors."Games and EconomicBehavior,
July-August 1998, 24(1-2), pp. 131-41.
Shiller, Robert. Irrational exuberance. Princeton, NJ: PrincetonUniversity Press, 2000.
Spanos, Aris. Statisticalfoundations of econometric modelling. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1986.
Teoh, Siew Hong. "InformationDisclosure and
Voluntary Contributionsto Public Goods."
RANDJournal of Economics, Autumn 1997,
28(3), pp. 385-406.

DECEMBER2002

TheEconomist."Garbagein, Garbageout." October 15, 1998.
Townsend, Robert M. "Market Anticipations,
Rational Expectations, and Bayesian Analysis." International Economic Review, June
1978, 19(2), pp. 481-94.
Ui, Takashi."PotentialFunctionsin Game Theory: Theory and Applications."Mimeo, University of Tsukuba,2001.
Woodford, Michael. "Learning to Believe in
Sunspots." Econometrica, March 1990,
58(2), pp. 277-307.
. "ImperfectCommon Knowledge and
the Effects of Monetary Policy." Unpublished manuscript, Princeton University,
2001.

