January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.




                  CHAPTER ONE



                  Introduction

                        China has four million websites, with nearly 700 million
                        Internet users, 1.2 billion mobile phone users, 600 million
                        WeChat and Weibo users, and generates 30 billion pieces
                        of information every day. It is not possible to apply
                        censorship to this enormous amount of data. Thus
                        censorship is not the correct word choice. But no
                        censorship does not mean no management.
                                    — Lu Wei, Former Director, State Internet Information
                                                          Office, China, December 20151



                  1.1 THE PUZZLE OF POROUS CENSORSHIP

                  As more people around the world gain access to the Internet,
                  government censorship seems an increasingly futile exercise.
                  Traditional conceptions of censorship that could completely
                  control information, such as watertight bans on access,
                  prepublication review, or government-enforced prohibitions on
                  content, seem silly when you consider that every second millions
                  of Internet users around the world are sending one another
                  instant messages, participating in online forums, and tweeting
                  to hundreds of thousands of followers. Even the world’s most
                  famous censors recognize this reality. As the former “gatekeeper
                  of the Chinese Internet” Lu Wei stresses in the epigraph to this
                  chapter, the thirty billion pieces of information generated each
                  day by Chinese citizens quite simply cannot be censored.

                     1                                                              December 9,
                  2015. Available at: http://news.china.com/domestic/945/20151209/20903585.html.




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  2   •    CHAPTER ONE


                     Yet recognizing the impossibility of complete control of
                  online discourse has not kept authoritarian regimes from spend-
                  ing billions of dollars trying. On the face of it, authoritarian
                  efforts of information control seem halfhearted. Even censor-
                  ship in one of the most sophisticated censorship regimes in the
                  world—China—could be seen as faltering attempts at “informa-
                  tion management.” For the most part, these efforts at censorship
                  are porous—frequently circumvented by savvy Internet users,
                  accidentally evaded by citizens wasting time on the web, and
                  rarely enforced with punishment.2
                     Indeed, most censorship methods implemented by the
                  Chinese government act not as a ban but as a tax on informa-
                  tion, forcing users to pay money or spend more time if they want
                  to access the censored material. For example, when the govern-
                  ment “kicked out” Google from China in 2010, it did so simply
                  by throttling the search engine so it loaded only 75 percent of
                  the time.3 If you wanted to use Google, you just had to be a
                  bit more patient. The Great Firewall, China’s most notorious
                  censorship invention that blocks a variety of foreign websites
                  from Chinese users, can be circumvented by savvy Internet users
                  by downloading a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Social media
                  users in China circumvent keyword censoring of social media
                  posts by substituting similar words that go undetected for words
                  that the government blocks, making content easy to find if you
                  spend more time searching.4 Newspapers are often instructed by

                      2 Yang (2009a, pg. 2) describes many of the ways in which Chinese netizens

                  circumvent Internet control and calls government control over the Internet “only
                  partly effective.” Xiao (2011) similarly emphasizes how Internet controls in China
                  are easily evaded.
                      3 Millward, Steven, “Google+ Not Actually Blocked in China, Just Be-

                  ing Slowly Throttled,” Tech in Asia, June 30, 2011. Available at: https://www.
                  techinasia.com/google-plus-china.
                      4 Branigan, Tania, “How China’s internet generation broke the silence,”

                  Guardian, March 24, 2010. Available at: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2010/
                  mar/24/china-internet-generation-censorship; Hiruncharoenvate, Lin and Gilbert
                  (2015).




                          For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                        INTRODUCTION           •   3

                  censors to put stories on the back pages of the newspaper, where
                  access is just a few more flips of the page away.5
                      Porous censorship is not unique to China or even to the mod-
                  ern time period. Instead of shutting off the whole Internet, Iran
                  has been known to simply throttle it and make it slower during
                  elections.6 The Russian government uses armies of online bots
                  and commentators to flood opposition hashtags and make it
                  more difficult, but not impossible, for people to find information
                  on protests or opposition leaders.7 Even before the Internet, in
                  the late nineteenth century, British censors banned translations
                  of French literature they considered obscene, but allowed un-
                  translated versions to circulate freely, allowing unlimited access
                  to those willing to expend the effort to read them in French.8
                  In East Germany during the cold war, the government decided
                  against enforcing restrictions on satellite dishes that enabled
                  citizens to watch West German television, effectively allowing
                  East Germans who were interested enough to find a way to buy
                  a satellite dish to have access to it.9
                      Why do governments attempt to control information when
                  these controls are easily circumvented? Conventional wisdom
                  posits that these porous censorship strategies are futile for
                  governments as citizens learn quickly to circumvent censorship
                  that is not complete or enforced. Many have stressed that
                  information, which is often called “non-excludable” because it is

                      5 “Ministry of Truth: Personal Wealth, Income Gap,” China Digital Times,

                  February 6, 2013. Available at: https://chinadigitaltimes.net/2013/02/ministry-of-
                  truth-personal-wealth-income-gap/.
                      6 See Aryan, Aryan and Halderman (2013, pg. 5) and Esfandiari, Golnaz

                  “Iran Admits Throttling Internet to ‘Preserve Calm’ During Election,” Radio
                  Free Europe, June 26, 2013. Available at: http://www.rferl.org/a/iran-Internet-
                  disruptions-election/25028696.html.
                      7 Goncharov, Maxim, “The Dark Side of Social Media,” TrendLabs Security Intel-

                  ligence Blog, December 7, 2011. Available at: http://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-
                  security-intelligence/the-dark-side-of-social-media/.
                      8 Reynolds (2014, pg. 188).
                      9 Kern and Hainmueller (2009, pg. 394–395).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  4   •    CHAPTER ONE


                  easily shared, is difficult to control once it has become known to
                  a portion of the public, as it can spread quickly.10 “Information
                  wants to be free,” originally coined by Stewart Brand, cap-
                  tures the idea that information technology makes information
                  easy to copy and thus difficult to control.11 More puzzling is
                  that many governments have the capacity to enforce censor-
                  ship more forcefully, but choose not to do so. Periodic VPN
                  crackdowns indicate that China could make the Firewall less
                  permeable, but much of the time the government chooses not
                  to.12 The government could implement draconian punishments
                  for those who evade censorship, creating strong disincentives
                  for circumvention, but most circumvention is not even illegal.
                  Using censorship that taxes, rather than prohibits, information
                  in China—and in other countries around the world—seems to
                  be a design choice, not an operational flaw—but why?



                  1.2 DISTRACTION AND DIVERSION

                  In this book, I shed light on the puzzle of porous censorship
                  by showing that even easily circumventable censorship has an
                  important impact on information access for the typical person
                  in most circumstances, and, for this very reason, is strategi-
                  cally useful for authoritarian regimes. Many censorship meth-
                  ods require citizens to spend more time or money accessing


                      10 Taubman (1998, pg. 266) stresses that the decentralized nature of the Internet

                  means no censorship methods are foolproof. Yang (2009b, pg. 30) contends that
                  online activism is powerful because it can be more easily multiplied. Esarey and Xiao
                  (2011) show that digital media has more critical content than newspapers in China.
                      11 Barlow, John Perry, “The Economy of Ideas,” Wired, March 1, 1994. Available

                  at: https://www.wired.com/1994/03/economy-ideas/.
                      12 “China Cracks Down on VPNs During Political Meetings,” Wall Street

                  Journal,     http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2016/03/10/china-cracks-down-on-
                  vpns-during-political-meetings/.




                          For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                       INTRODUCTION           •   5

                  information that the government would like to slow down.
                  Only a minority of citizens who are interested enough in the
                  information and have the education and resources to pay the
                  costs of evasion are motivated and equipped enough to cir-
                  cumvent censorship. For the majority of citizens, who are less
                  interested in politics and are not willing to spend significant time
                  becoming informed,13 small costs of access and government
                  distractions can divert citizens to information that is less dan-
                  gerous to the regime. Even though it is possible to access most
                  information, as normal citizens get lost in the cacophony of in-
                  formation available to them, their consumption of information
                  is highly influenced by the costs of obtaining it. I argue that there
                  are massively different implications for the spread of political
                  information of having certain information completely free and
                  easy to obtain as compared to being available but slightly more
                  difficult to access.
                      Part of the inconsistency between conventional wisdom
                  about censorship and the reality of censorship results from
                  the lack of conceptual clarity about the mechanisms by which
                  censorship affects the public’s consumption of information. We
                  lack a theory of censorship. I provide a typology of the three
                  ways in which censorship can affect individuals. What most
                  people think of when they think of censorship is fear—threats
                  of punishment, such as losing a job, prison, or worse—which
                  may deter citizens from spreading or accessing information.
                  Fear works by prohibiting particular information and through
                  this inducing self-censorship. But the threat of punishment
                  must be observable to be credible—those who are not aware

                     13 Many scholars in political communication have shown that most people are not

                  willing to spend time informing themselves about politics. For example, Sniderman,
                  Tetlock and Brody (1991) show that voters rely on heuristics to make political
                  judgements, Popkin (1994) explores how voters use information shortcuts to make
                  choices, Conover and Feldman (1984) develop a theory of how people have ideology
                  under low information, and Hamilton (2004, pg. 11) explains how media consumers
                  can be rationally ignorant.




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  6   •    CHAPTER ONE


                  of punishment cannot be deterred by it. Although fear is a
                  more complete form of censorship because it can be enforced,
                  fear is problematic for authoritarian regimes because it can
                  cause backlash, draw attention to censored information, and
                  create information-gathering problems for governments. Fear
                  is more difficult to use in the digital age because prohibitions
                  on information are difficult for governments to enforce when
                  information is easily copied.
                     The other two less well-known censorship mechanisms I
                  introduce—friction and flooding—have proven themselves more
                  useful in the age of the Internet. Friction—increasing the costs,
                  either in time or money, of access or spread of information—
                  diverts citizens’ attention by imposing barriers to informa-
                  tion access. A slow webpage, a book removed from a library,
                  reordered search results, or a blocked website can all be used
                  to increase the costs of access to information. Friction is often
                  circumventable—it can be evaded simply by sustaining these
                  costs. However, it does not have to be observable in order
                  to work and therefore can more easily be explained away or
                  go unnoticed. Friction’s counterpart, flooding, is information
                  coordinated as distraction, propaganda, or confusion, such
                  as astroturfing, online propaganda, or government-mandated
                  newspaper articles. Flooding competes with information that
                  authoritarian governments would like to hide by diluting it
                  and distracting from it. As with the friction mechanism, while
                  flooding can be discounted or avoided, flooding requires the
                  consumer to take time and effort to separate out good informa-
                  tion from bad information.
                     I offer a wide range of empirical evidence—from online
                  experiments to nationally representative surveys, datasets of
                  millions of geo-located social media posts, and leaked propa-
                  ganda archives—to show that friction and flooding effectively
                  divert and distract most people away from censored infor-
                  mation. Even though a minority of people will pay the costs
                  to circumvent censorship, friction and flooding are useful to

                          For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                       INTRODUCTION           •   7

                  governments because they separate those who are willing to
                  pay the cost of evasion from those who are not, enabling the
                  government to target repression toward the most influential
                  media producers while avoiding widespread repressive policies.
                  I focus my empirical evidence on the citizen production and
                  consumption of information on the Chinese Internet. China is
                  a nearly ideal case for testing how each mechanism of censor-
                  ship affects citizens’ consumption of information and political
                  behavior because the Chinese government implements a wide
                  variety of censorship tactics, which function through each of the
                  three censorship mechanisms. Furthermore, China’s censorship
                  system has become the model for many authoritarian regimes:
                  evidence exists that others are trying to emulate it.14 A better
                  understanding of how the Chinese censorship system works will
                  allow us to predict the future impacts of information control
                  across a wide range of authoritarian regimes.
                     Censorship is difficult to study empirically because it is often
                  intended to go undetected. Recently, entire subfields in com-
                  puter science have emerged dedicated to detecting censorship
                  because governments are not typically forthcoming with their
                  tactics.15 In this book, I move beyond what is censored to take
                  up the challenging task of measuring individuals’ reactions to
                  censorship while they are being subjected to it. Using large
                  social media datasets, measures of the spread of online informa-
                  tion, online experiments, and surveys, I answer the questions:
                  How do individuals react when observing censorship? How
                  does Internet users’ behavior change when particular pieces of
                  information are more difficult to access? Are Internet users
                  who come across distracting online propaganda likely to spread

                    14 See Diamond (2015, pg. 151), and Soldatov, Andrei and Irna Borogan, “Putin

                  brings China’s Great Firewall to Russia in cybersecurity pact,” Guardian, November
                  29, 2016, https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/nov/29/putin-china-internet-
                  great-firewall-russia-cybersecurity-pact. As a result, scholars have advocated for
                  more research on the Chinese censorship system; see Shorey and Howard (2016).
                     15 For an overview of the challenges measuring censorship see Burnett and

                  Feamster (2013).


                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am       Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  8   •    CHAPTER ONE


                  and share it? The evidence I present shows that although many
                  people are resistant to censorship when they notice and observe
                  it, they are very affected by it when they are inconvenienced by
                  it, do not notice it, or can explain it away.
                      My findings of how censorship influences individuals may
                  explain why we see so many regimes using porous censor-
                  ship strategies even though these methods are easy to thwart.
                  Although many would see the fact that a minority of capable cit-
                  izens can route around censorship as detrimental to the regime’s
                  censorship efforts, I argue that circumventible censorship can
                  be useful to authoritarian regimes precisely because it has dif-
                  ferent effects on different segments of the population. Porous
                  censorship drives a wedge between the elite and the masses.
                  The savvy members of the elite easily circumvent censorship,
                  discount propaganda, read blocked information, and enter into
                  banned social networks. By contrast, friction and flooding prey
                  on the rest of the public’s short attention spans, busy schedules,
                  and general lack of interest in politics, nudging them toward
                  an information environment that is disconnected from their
                  more well-educated, well-to-do, and politically sophisticated
                  counterparts. By separating the elite from the masses, the gov-
                  ernment prevents coordination of the core and the periphery,
                  known to be an essential component in successful collective
                  action.16 Although a portion of savvy and politically concerned
                  citizens may be willing to pay the costs imposed by friction
                  and flooding, less interested individuals often are not, making
                  wider discontent among the broader population significantly
                  less likely and reducing the accountability of political entities.
                      The strategy of porous censorship allows the government to
                  avoid widespread use of observable repression, which is well

                     16 Barberá et al. (2015) show that the periphery is critical to the success of protests,

                  Steinert-Threlkeld (2017) shows that the periphery can even instigate successful
                  protests, and Chenoweth and Stephan (2011, pg. 39–40) show that total numbers
                  and recruitment are a strong predictor of successful protest movements.




                          For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                       INTRODUCTION           •   9

                  known to spark popular backlash.17 Autocrats face significant
                  trade-offs when making citizens fearful of speaking out. Highly
                  constraining forms of censorship that operate through deter-
                  rence must be observable to their targets; otherwise deterrence
                  cannot work. As I will show using social media data, surveys,
                  and online experiments, when censorship is observable, political
                  entities call attention to the information they would like to
                  make off-limits. The observation of censorship intended to cre-
                  ate deterrence can instead create opportunities for push-back,
                  signal government weakness, and create increased interest in the
                  off-limits topic. Repression that deters citizens from speaking
                  out also creates information and surveillance problems for the
                  government, as governments often rely on input from the media
                  and population to identify local corruption and on information
                  in the public sphere to identify new pockets of dissent.18
                      Incomplete censorship, by contrast, is more easily masked by
                  political entities, giving the government the cover of plausible
                  deniability.19 Flooding can front as concerned citizens who are
                  voluntarily writing pro-government content online or are spon-
                  taneously gathering in a pro-government parade, and friction
                  can front as technological errors or algorithmic quirks, which
                  ordinary citizens may not be aware of or may explain away. If
                  a link on the Internet redirects to an error page, it is difficult to
                  tell whether the page is down or the government has blocked it.
                  If a book is missing from a library shelf, is it lost, not ordered,
                  or removed by the government? If a social media post does

                    17 Dickson (2016, pg. 7).
                     18 Egorov, Guriev and Sonin (2009); Liebman (2005); Lorentzen (2014); Shirk

                  (2011, pg. 19); Stockmann (2012, pg. 140); Qin, Strömberg and Wu (2017).
                     19 Stockmann (2012) makes a similar argument about the traditional media

                  in China, arguing that the commercialization of the media provides cover for
                  government propaganda. The concept of plausible deniability has also been used
                  widely in the literature on repression, for example, Conrad and Moore (2010,
                  pg. 461) argue that plausible deniability of torture allows the state to shift the
                  blame.




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  10    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  not appear in a news feed, is it because the algorithm predicts
                  you might not be interested in it, or because of government
                  manipulation?20 Because information is widespread and has
                  many substitutes, small impediments to reading information
                  and even silly distractions can significantly affect users’ con-
                  sumption of political information.
                      The strategy of porous censorship does, however, have an
                  Achilles’ heel. Although for most citizens most of the time,
                  small impediments to accessing information and government-
                  encouraged distractions can divert them to more benign infor-
                  mation, there are cases when the typical citizen will take the
                  time to seek out restricted information and evade censorship. I
                  show that in periods of crisis, such as the 2015 Tianjin explosion,
                  citizens are more likely to spend time seeking out methods of
                  accessing restricted information. Similarly, when censorship is
                  imposed suddenly and disrupts habits, such as the case of the
                  Instagram block during the 2014 Hong Kong protests, citizens
                  are more likely to find ways to continue consuming information
                  and entertainment to which they are accustomed.21 Thus, the
                  strategy of porous censorship can be counterproductive and
                  dangerous to the regime when it uses this censorship too de-
                  cisively during times it needs censorship most. If information
                  were to disrupt the Chinese political system, it would be during
                  a period when the majority of people were willing to pay the
                  price imposed by censorship to collectively inform themselves.


                  1.3 IMPLICATIONS AND CHALLENGES TO
                      CONVENTIONAL WISDOM

                  The findings I present in this book challenge many conven-
                  tional notions of censorship and have implications for research
                    20 See Knockel, Ruan and Crete-Nishihata (2017) for an example of how censor-

                  ship is used surreptitiously in the Chinese social media platform WeChat.
                     21 Hobbs and Roberts (2016).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                       INTRODUCTION            •   11

                  in digital politics, the politics of repression, and political
                  communication.


                  Censorship Is More Than Fear
                  First, this book speaks to the strategies that modern autoc-
                  racies use to prevent large-scale dissent. Many scholars have
                  puzzled over the resilience of some authoritarian regimes.22
                  Some argue that the resilience of autocracies is due in part to
                  successful repression; that autocrats have survived by forcefully
                  extinguishing opposition groups.23 Others have maintained that
                  autocrats are successful in part by creating institutions that are
                  better able to share power with the opposition and respond
                  to citizens’ concerns.24 Still others have credited authoritarian
                  resilience to brainwashing or enforced symbolism, through cult-
                  like nationalism, religion, or ideology.25
                     In this book I demonstrate that autocrats have methods
                  outside of direct repression, accommodation, or brainwashing
                  to maintain power, even in the modern era. Autocrats have a
                  large toolbox available to them to nudge citizens away from ac-
                  tivist circles, dangerous information, and focal points that could
                  facilitate coordination.26 These methods are not forceful, do not
                  accommodate, and are often not meant to directly persuade.
                  Instead, they create small inconveniences that reroute users

                    22 Nathan (2003); Anderson (2006); Gilley (2003).
                     23 Davenport (2007, pg. 7) describes the “Law of Coercive Responsiveness,” that

                  autocrats respond to opposition movements with force. Brownlee (2007, pg. 33)
                  argues that autocrats have been able to repress opposition groups to consolidate
                  power.
                     24 Wintrobe (1990, pg. 851) and Wintrobe (1998) stresses the patronage and

                  public services dictators can provide as a substitute for repression. Dickson (2016);
                  He and Warren (2011); and Lorentzen (2013) elaborate on how the Chinese
                  government creates channels to respond to citizens’ concerns. Magaloni (2008);
                  Bueno De Mesquita et al. (2003); and Boix and Svolik (2013) describe how dictators
                  create power-sharing institutions to prevent overthrow by other elite.
                     25 See Wedeen (1999).
                     26 Note that this is the same “nudge” logic with a darker take as that used in the

                  behavioral economics literature; see Thaler and Sunstein (2009).


                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  12    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  to information and social networks that are more palatable to
                  the regime, decreasing the mobilization capacity for opposition,
                  often without citizens being aware of it. Although less forceful
                  than repression or brainwashing, these methods are surprisingly
                  effective in changing the behavior of the vast majority of citizens
                  who are too busy to engage deeply in politics.


                  Censorship Is Customized
                  Second, this book speaks to a long-standing question of whether
                  and how governments can control social media in the infor-
                  mation age. Many scholars believed that the Internet, which
                  expanded the number of citizens involved in public discourse,
                  would force governments to become more accountable to citi-
                  zens because of the speed with which large numbers of citizens
                  could participate in everyday public debate.27 Yet the failure
                  of the Internet to create the expected accountability in some
                  authoritarian regimes led other scholars to argue that this new
                  technology in fact played into the hands of the autocrats.28 Some
                  of these writers hypothesized that the Internet had not reached
                  its political potential because of extreme self-censorship and
                  fear.29 Others discerned that the Internet created opportunities
                  for authorities to use sophisticated hidden technologies that
                  could manipulate citizens without their consent or being aware
                  of it.30
                     The findings in this book cut a middle path between these
                  arguments by showing that Internet censorship has very dif-
                  ferent impacts on different types of individuals, which allows


                     27 Ferdinand (2000, pg. 5), Lynch (2011), Bellin (2012, pg. 138), Diamond (2010,

                  pg. 70).
                     28 Morozov (2011), MacKinnon (2012), Kalathil and Boas (2010), Rød and

                  Weidmann (2015), Steele and Stein (2002).
                     29 Kalathil and Boas (2010, pg. 26), Wacker (2003, pg. 88).
                     30 MacKinnon (2012, pg. 6), Morozov (2011, pg. 97).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                    INTRODUCTION           •   13

                  governments to use these differential effects strategically to
                  maximize censorship’s impact while minimizing its costs. The
                  findings in this book suggest that the low probability of the
                  government following through on punishment for millions of
                  Internet users who engage daily in off-limits discussion has
                  diminished the government’s ability to enforce self-censorship
                  on those engaged in public discourse. Self-censorship, by itself,
                  does not “purify” the Internet in many authoritarian regimes
                  as some have suggested, and online criticism of autocrats is
                  commonplace.31 For the majority of citizens, this book provides
                  evidence that political entities have a wide range of effective
                  tools available to them to interfere with the Internet without
                  citizens being aware of it or motivated enough to circumvent
                  it.32 However, these tools work not because they are sophis-
                  ticated enough to prevent access to information, but precisely
                  because they have holes: they can affect the majority of the pub-
                  lic’s information-seeking behavior simply by inconveniencing
                  them, without interfering so much to cause widespread public
                  backlash. Small costs of access, not draconian punishments
                  or sophisticated manipulation, can have huge effects on the
                  behavior of the majority.
                      Because censorship affects different segments of the pop-
                  ulation differently, its impact is more than simply hidden
                  manipulation and instead is a story of customized repression.
                  The fact that the majority are affected by diversion and distrac-
                  tions allows regimes the flexibility to selectively target punish-
                  ment for speech toward journalists, activists, and other high-
                  profile elites. Because friction and flooding are not effective for
                  highly capable and motivated individuals, autocrats use targeted

                    31 Zhang, Yuxin, “China: Self-Censorship Displaces Western Threats,” Diplomat,

                  March 3, 2015. http://thediplomat.com/2015/03/china-self-censorship-displaces-
                  western-threats/.
                    32 This finding provides support for some of the arguments in MacKinnon (2012)

                  and Morozov (2011).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  14    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  fear to contain the spread of information at elite levels.33 Just as
                  the Internet has enabled more micro-targeting of information
                  and advertising toward particular individuals, the evidence I
                  present suggests that censorship as well is becoming increasingly
                  customized to individual behavior and capabilities.
                     Despite the cunning of the Chinese censorship system,
                  I highlight the ways in which the censorship system can be un-
                  dermined in particular periods. I show that the regime is more
                  constrained in making censorship porous during crises when
                  individuals are motivated to seek out information. The more
                  that citizens are willing to overcome friction, the less able the
                  government is to use censorship methods other than fear. This
                  puts the government in a difficult situation, as direct repression
                  will frequently cause backlash. Although the government will try
                  to ramp up all forms of censorship during periods of crisis, these
                  are also the periods that are most likely to force government
                  accountability and concessions.

                  More Media Does Not Always Lead to Better Information
                  I caution against a rosy economic model of information where
                  more producers of information will always lead to better infor-
                  mation outcomes. Some scholars have posited that as the num-
                  ber of producers of information and media outlets increases,
                  the government’s influence over the media will decrease because
                  governments will have a more difficult time forcing media to
                  keep silent.34 One implication is that the digital age, where there
                  are many more producers of information, will lead to a less
                  biased news media.35

                     33 This finding is more in line with arguments made in studies that emphasize the

                  impact of fear in controlling the spread of information. Kalathil and Boas (2010);
                  Wacker (2003).
                     34 See Besley and Prat (2006, pg. 4), Gentzkow, Glaeser and Goldin (2006,

                  pg. 189).
                     35 Edmond (2013, pg. 1441).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am      Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                       INTRODUCTION            •   15

                     However, these models only consider coercion of media and
                  media capture as methods of censorship and do not consider
                  the impacts that governments have on the distribution of in-
                  formation. The results in this book show that even if media
                  that contains better information exists, if government can create
                  frictions on the distribution of information through censorship,
                  then this media will not reach most of the public.36 Govern-
                  ments that have direct control over information distribution
                  can use friction to de-prioritize media that they find to be
                  objectionable. Even if articles on the Internet contain good
                  information, if they are buried in a search engine by government
                  censorship, very few people will access it.
                     Moreover, even if governments do not directly control the
                  distribution of information, they can use the fact that anyone
                  can enter into the Internet discourse to flood the information
                  environment with their own version of events. By hiring paid
                  commentators or distributing online propaganda, governments
                  can crowd out information that they find objectionable, under-
                  mine the credibility of competing media, and distract citizens
                  from events that reflect badly on them. Counterintuitively, the
                  ability for anyone to produce media can result in the production
                  of less reliable information because some governments and
                  entities will have incentives and resources to produce and spread
                  unreliable information en masse.


                  A Broader Definition of Censorship Has
                     Implications for Democracies
                  Last, because this book is about censorship that does not always
                  function through fear, it has broader implications for censorship
                  outside of authoritarian systems. Democracies generally have

                     36 Edmond (2013, pg. 1442) allows for the possibility that governments can invest

                  in “large-scale fixed investments for information control” online that may allow
                  them to control the Internet despite the decentralized nature of the Internet.




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  16    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  laws that prevent them from directly repressing free speech—
                  they cannot use fear-based methods of censorship. However,
                  democratic governments have vast powers to affect the costs
                  of access to information by producing legislation that regulates
                  information such as the availability of data, the transparency
                  of the government, and the functioning of the Internet. The
                  findings in this book suggest that even small impediments to
                  access imposed by any regime can have significant political ef-
                  fects, and therefore that manipulation of information in democ-
                  racies can also have a widespread impact on the public’s political
                  knowledge.
                     As I will discuss in the conclusion, recent events in democ-
                  racies highlight the importance of a broader definition of cen-
                  sorship. Evidence that taxes on the accessibility of information
                  can have large political impacts37 suggests that society should
                  be concerned with the extent that a few Internet companies and
                  Internet service providers have primary control over the speed
                  and convenience with which information can be accessed. If
                  too few individuals, companies, or politicians wield significant
                  power to make certain political information easy to access while
                  making other information more difficult (for example through
                  fast lanes on the Internet or reordering search results) in an
                  effort to advance their own interests, this could have political
                  impacts in democracies similar to the impacts of search filtering
                  and firewalls in autocracies. Similarly, as traditional media have
                  been decimated by competition from the Internet, small costs
                  of access to data imposed by federal or local government may
                  have an impact on content reported to the public in the tradi-
                  tional press. The broader definition of censorship I provide in
                  this book emphasizes the importance of institutionalizing and

                     37 Byrnes, Nanette, “How the Bot-y Politic Influenced This Election,” November

                  8, 2016. Available at: MIT Technology Review https://www.technologyreview.com/
                  s/602817/how-the-bot-y-politic-influenced-this-election/. Epstein and Robertson
                  (2015), Bond et al. (2012).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                      INTRODUCTION         •   17

                  facilitating government transparency and competition between
                  information distributors as well as producers in democracies so
                  that what information is provided, at what speed and when,
                  to the press and public is not completely the result of political
                  motivations and strategy.
                     Citizens in democracies recently have been shown to be
                  susceptible to flooding as well. Distractions and misinformation
                  spread online by cheap Internet commentators or automated
                  bots increase the burden on the public to separate the signal
                  from the noise, and many confuse good and bad information.38
                  Denial of service attacks that flood the websites of media, In-
                  ternet companies, nongovernmental organizations, and govern-
                  ment with too much traffic so that they become unavailable have
                  the power to silence information channels selectively.39 As soon
                  as these strategies are used for political purposes, they become
                  political censorship. Although much censorship research has
                  focused on the Internet in autocracies, more research needs to
                  be done to study how censorship extends to democratic envi-
                  ronments on the Internet as these undoubtedly have important
                  political impacts.


                  1.4 THE PLAN OF THE BOOK

                  I proceed by offering a theory of the strategic interplay
                  between government censorship and citizens’ consumption and
                  production of information. First, I describe the incentives of
                  the government—why it would choose to censor and the costs
                  it might incur from censorship. Next, I develop a model of
                  how both citizens and the media interact with information.

                    38 Nyhan and Reifler (2010), Ratkiewicz et al. (2011, pg. 301–302).
                     39 Woolf, Nicky, “DoS attack that disrupted internet was largest of its kind

                  in history, experts say,” Guardian, October 26, 2016. Available at: https://www.
                  theguardian.com/technology/2016/oct/26/ddos-attack-dyn-mirai-botnet.




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  18    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  Using this model, I elucidate the three main ways in which cen-
                  sorship can influence the media and the public—fear, friction,
                  and flooding. I then provide examples of each of these mech-
                  anisms in various communication media, and describe when
                  each will have more or less impact on the spread of information.
                  Fear, which is censorship based on deterrence, is by nature very
                  constraining but must be observable in order to have an impact.
                  Fear has to be credible in order to create deterrence; otherwise, it
                  may instead draw attention to authoritarian weakness or create
                  backlash. Therefore, it is discreetly targeted toward the most
                  capable and motivated individuals. Friction, which imposes
                  small taxes on information access, and flooding, which creates
                  distractions, by contrast, do not need to be obviously driven by
                  political entities to have an impact on information consumption
                  and dissemination. Friction and flooding are more porous but
                  less observable to the public than censorship using fear, and
                  therefore are more effective with an impatient or uninterested
                  public.
                     Chapter 3 provides an overview of the modern history of
                  censorship in China and outlines the institutional structure and
                  methods of censorship in China today. It describes how the
                  Chinese censorship system has evolved from a model that was
                  designed to micromanage every citizen’s consumption and pro-
                  duction of information to one that relies on porous censorship.
                  It provides an overview of the main methods by which the
                  Chinese government censors the Internet and the bureaucratic
                  system that implements this censorship. Practically, it describes
                  why China provides a good empirical test for the impact of
                  porous censorship.
                     Chapter 4 explores how citizens react when they observe cen-
                  sorship online in China. Although many scholars have suggested
                  that fear and self-censorship are the main forms of control
                  of the Chinese Internet, I show that typical Internet users do
                  not act afraid after experiencing online censorship and instead



                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018     Time: 09:17am   Chapter1.tex




                      © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                      distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                      means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                                                                 INTRODUCTION          •   19

                  are angered by observing it. Using a matched pair study of
                  users who forward the same social media post, but where one
                  experiences censorship and the other does not, I study how
                  experience with censorship affects the writings of Internet users.
                  I find that, all else being equal, those who have experienced
                  censorship persist in writing about the censored topic and are
                  more likely to complain about censorship, even as they become
                  increasingly targeted with censorship. I then survey Internet
                  users about how they would feel if they experienced censorship.
                  I find that Internet users, particularly those who report having
                  experienced censorship, are much more likely to report being
                  unfazed or angry about censorship than fearful or worried.
                  Last, using online experiments, I randomly assign users in a
                  lab experiment to come across a censored webpage. I find that
                  the observation of censorship creates more, not less, interest in
                  the censored topic and also decreases support for government
                  censorship policies. I explore how the Chinese government,
                  likely aware that experience with censorship can undermine its
                  reputation, adopts a two-pronged censorship strategy targeting
                  high-profile users with fear-based censorship while attempting
                  to make online censorship efforts less observable to the public.
                      Chapter 5 demonstrates that small, less observable frictions
                  on information have a powerful influence on the online behavior
                  of Chinese citizens. First, I analyze the spread of information
                  about 120 self-immolation events in Tibet through social media
                  in China. I find that the best predictor of the number of social
                  media posts that accompany a self-immolation event is whether
                  the event occurs on the weekend, when the censors are slower to
                  censor, suggesting that the speed of censorship has important
                  implications for the spread of information in China. Next,
                  I estimate the effect of the Great Firewall on the behavior
                  of citizens in China. Using surveys and direct measures of
                  those evading censorship through data from the social media
                  platform Twitter, I find that those who evade the Firewall are



                        For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
January 4, 2018    Time: 09:17am     Chapter1.tex




                       © Copyright, Princeton University Press. No part of this book may be
                       distributed, posted, or reproduced in any form by digital or mechanical
                       means without prior written permission of the publisher.

                  20    •   CHAPTER ONE


                  technologically savvy, well-educated, high-income Internet
                  users in China who have high levels of political efficacy. I
                  find that the Firewall pulls this political elite away from their
                  potential followers. I show that newly blocked websites have pre-
                  cipitous declines in usage directly following their block, showing
                  how small impediments to access have an immediate impact on
                  traffic from typical Chinese users. But I find that friction has
                  an Achilles’ heel, and is more commonly circumvented during
                  crises and moments of sudden implementation.40
                     In chapter 6, I demonstrate that flooding in both online
                  and traditional news media in China coordinates messages to
                  distract the public from sensitive events. Using plagiarism detec-
                  tion software and leaked archives from the Chinese government
                  to identify instances of flooding both online and in traditional
                  news media, I show that the government uses propaganda to
                  distract with coverage of the mundane details of Party meetings
                  or with encouraging quotes and positive thoughts directed at
                  the public.41 Using estimates of search results for reposting of
                  propaganda articles around the web, I show that for the most
                  part this strategy is effective—highly coordinated propaganda
                  used by the Chinese government is more likely than articles that
                  are less coordinated to be re-shared in both the domestic and
                  international social media spheres.
                     Chapter 7 concludes with a discussion of the implications
                  of my findings for politics in both democracies and autocracies
                  as information technology and social media become more cen-
                  tral components of political communication. I lay out specific
                  directions for future research in the area of censorship and
                  discuss censorship’s potential for long-term political impacts on
                  domestic and international politics.


                    40 This draws on work with William Hobbs; see Hobbs and Roberts (2016).
                    41 This draws on work with Brandon Stewart, Jennifer Pan, and Gary King; see

                  Roberts and Stewart (2016); King, Pan and Roberts (2017).




                         For general queries, contact webmaster@press.princeton.edu
