Sentiments, strategic uncertainty, and information structures in
coordination games
Michal Szkupy and Isabel Trevinoz

Abstract
We study experimentally how changes in the information structure a¤ect behavior in coordination games with incomplete information (global games). We …nd two systematic departures
from the theory: (1) the comparative statics of equilibrium thresholds and signal precision are
reversed, and (2) as information becomes very precise subjects’behavior approximates the e¢ cient equilibrium of the game, not the risk dominant one. We hypothesize that sentiments in the
perception of strategic uncertainty could drive our results. To formalize this hypothesis we extend the standard model by introducing sentiments and we test this mechanism experimentally
by eliciting beliefs. We …nd empirical support for our hypothesis: Subjects are over-optimistic
about the actions of others when the signal precision is high and over-pessimistic when it is
low. Thus, we show how changes in the information structure can give rise to sentiments that
drastically a¤ect outcomes in coordination games.
Keywords: global games, coordination, information structures, strategic uncertainty, sentiments, biased beliefs.
JEL codes: C72, C9, D82, D9

1

Introduction

Many economic phenomena can be analyzed as coordination problems under uncertainty. Investment decisions, currency attacks, bank runs, or political revolts are situations where decision makers
We would like to thank the editor and three anonymous referees for their valuable feedback, as well as John Du¤y,
Guillaume Frechette, Frank Heinemann, Stephen Morris, Rosemarie Nagel, Ryan Oprea, Alessandro Pavan, David
Pierce, Tomasz Sadzik, Andrew Schotter, Ennio Stacchetti, participants at numerous seminars and conferences, and
referees of previous versions. Financial support from the National Science Foundation via grant SES-105962 and the
Center for Experimental Social Science at New York University is greatly appreciated. This paper incorporates some
results from an older working paper entitled “Costly information acquisition in a speculative attack: Theory and
experiments” and supersedes it. All remaining errors are ours.
y
Vancouver School of Economics, University of British Columbia, 6000 Iona Drive, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1L4,
Canada, michal.szkup@ubc.ca.
z
Department of Economics, University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive #0508 La Jolla, CA 92093,
USA. itrevino@ucsd.edu.

1

would like to coordinate with others to attain certain outcomes but may fail to do so. In addition
to the strategic uncertainty that arises from not knowing the actions of others, in these environments decision makers also face uncertainty about the fundamentals that determine the state of the
economy (e.g., the pro…tability of the investment, the strength of the currency peg, or the strength
of the political regime). In these environments the information structure characterizes both the
degree of fundamental and strategic uncertainty faced by the players, and hence determines the coordination outcome. Thus, a key question is whether better information leads to less coordination
failure (see e.g., Angeletos and Lian (2016), Veldkamp (2011), or Vives (2010)).
In this paper we investigate theoretically and experimentally how changes in the information
structure a¤ect behavior in coordination games with incomplete information. We use global games
as the setup to perform our analysis because they o¤er a unique framework to study explicitly
the e¤ects of fundamental and strategic uncertainty on behavior (see Carlsson and Van Damme
(1993), Morris and Shin (1998, 2003)). Global games are coordination games with incomplete
information where players observe noisy private signals about payo¤s. This perturbation in the
information structure leads to a unique equilibrium under mild conditions on parameters that is
characterized by coordination failure. In these games, the precision of the signals determines the
degree of fundamental and strategic uncertainty. This leads to sharp theoretical predictions: in twoplayer settings, as the signal precision increases (fundamental uncertainty decreases), equilibrium
play is driven more by strategic uncertainty and less by fundamental uncertainty. This eventually
leads to convergence in the limit towards the risk-dominant equilibrium of the underlying complete
information game.
The contribution of our paper is twofold. First, we document two systematic deviations from the
predictions of the theory of global games: (1) the comparative statics of thresholds with respect
to signal precision are reversed and (2) as the signal noise decreases, subjects’ behavior tends
towards the e¢ cient threshold, not the risk-dominant one. These results are robust to a number of
variations in the experimental setting. Second, we argue that these departures can be understood by
sentiments in the perception of strategic uncertainty and provide evidence supporting this notion.
We begin the paper by setting up a standard global game model that we use as the theoretical
benchmark for our experiment. We characterize its unique equilibrium and comparative statics and
explain how the equilibrium is a¤ected by the degree of fundamental and strategic uncertainty. In
the experiment we vary fundamental uncertainty by exogenously manipulating the signal precision.
We …nd that the vast majority of subjects use threshold strategies, as suggested by the theory and
consistent with existing experimental evidence (see Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004, 2009)).
However, as mentioned above, we …nd two systematic departures in the way that subjects respond
to changes in the information structure, which have signi…cant welfare e¤ects. These departures
suggest that, contrary to the theoretical predictions, the perception of strategic uncertainty might
2

be directly aligned to the degree of fundamental uncertainty in the environment. That is, subjects
behave as if they were more certain about the action of their opponent when signals become more
precise.
To explain our …ndings we hypothesize that the departures from the theory are driven by sentiments in the perception of strategic uncertainty. Our hypothesis is based on the observation
that the expected payo¤s in our model can be approximated by the product of the expected value
of the state (determined by the degree of fundamental uncertainty) and the probability that the
other player takes the risky action (which captures strategic uncertainty). This simple observation
suggests that departures from the theory can be driven by sentiments related to fundamental uncertainty (subjective beliefs about the state of fundamentals) or to strategic uncertainty (subjective
beliefs about the likelihood of the opponent taking a speci…c action). However, when information is
very precise, signals convey very accurate information about the state, suggesting that, at least in
the case of high precision, departures from the theory are unlikely to be driven by a subjective perception of fundamental uncertainty. Therefore, we hypothesize that our experimental …ndings are
a result of sentiments that a¤ect the perception of strategic uncertainty and that these sentiments
are directly a¤ected by the degree of fundamental uncertainty in the environment.
To test this hypothesis we extend our baseline model to allow for situations where the perception
of strategic uncertainty can be in‡uenced by sentiments. The extended model allows us to formalize
our hypothesis. We then test this hypothesis empirically by eliciting subjects’ beliefs about the
state and about the actions of others to explicitly test the two main assumptions behind the
extended model: that subjects do not exhibit sentiments related to fundamental uncertainty and
that sentiments related to strategic uncertainty become positive and stronger as private information
becomes more precise. We …nd support for both of these assumptions in the data. On average,
subjects form accurate …rst-order beliefs, especially with high and medium precision, supporting
the idea that sentiments related to fundamentals are an unlikely driver of our results. On the
other hand, elicited beliefs about the actions of others indicate that subjects are overly optimistic
about the desire of their opponent to coordinate when information is very precise, and pessimistic
when the signal noise increases. This suggests that subjects anchor their perception of strategic
uncertainty to the degree of fundamental uncertainty. In other words, that fundamental uncertainty
determines the sign and magnitude of the sentiments that a¤ect the subjects’perception of strategic
uncertainty in the way suggested by the extended model.
The results of our experiments show how a bias in belief formation that has been extensively
studied in individual decision making can crucially a¤ect outcomes in strategic environments by
altering the way in which players respond to changes in the information structure. The sentiments
that we identify, however, are di¤erent to the biases that are typically studied in the behavioral
literature (which focuses mainly on individual decision making) because they a¤ect the percep3

tion of strategic uncertainty, which is unique to strategic environments.1 We …nd that the sign
and magnitude of the sentiments we identify depend on the informativeness of the environment,
which has important welfare implications for coordination problems. For example, more successful
coordination can be attained when information is very precise because it leads players to become
overoptimistic about the likelihood of a successful coordination. On the other hand, coordination
failures are likely to occur under very noisy information because players tend to become overly
pessimistic about the likelihood of a successful coordination.
Our results not only provide novel qualitative insights about behavior in coordination problems with incomplete information, but they may also shed light on some of the recent …ndings
in macroeconomics and …nance. For example, in the context of business cycles, Bloom (2009)
suggests that recessions are accompanied by an increase in uncertainty, while Angeletos and La’O
(2013) and Benhabib, Wang, and Wen (2015) argue that recessions can be driven by sentiments.
Our framework provides a natural connection between these two seemingly unrelated ideas. As
our results show, an increase in uncertainty leads to negative sentiments about the likelihood of
pro…table risky investment (via pessimism about others investing). This leads to lower levels of
aggregate investment, which leads to, or ampli…es, a recession. Our results could also inform policy
making qualitatively. For example, the mechanism we identify could help to make the case for
greater transparency in …nancial regulation. If we interpret rolling over loans as a risky choice in
environments with strategic complementarities (as in Diamond and Dybvig (1983) or Goldstein and
Pauzner (2005)), an increase in transparency (better information) can lead to positive sentiments
about the likelihood of others rolling over, which decreases coordination failure by having fewer
early withdrawals and can result in greater …nancial stability.2
Our baseline setup is a discrete version of Morris and Shin (1998) and the corresponding experimental treatments are related to Heinemann, Nagel, and Ockenfels (2004) who test the predictions
of Morris and Shin (1998). Our model with sentiments is related to Izmalkov and Yildiz (2010) who
study theoretically how sentiments a¤ect outcomes in global games of regime change. However,
we use a di¤erent notion of sentiments which is driven by our experimental …ndings. In Izmalkov
and Yildiz (2010) sentiments arise because of a non-common prior assumption, and thus a¤ect the
perception of fundamental uncertainty. In our setup all subjects share the same prior belief and
1

If the sentiments were related to the perception of fundamental uncertainty (beliefs about the state), they would
be closer to the biases studied in the individual decision making literature (see Weinstein (1980) or Camerer and
Lovallo (1999)).
2
Macroeconomic environments, clearly, deal with a much larger number of agents than our stylized 2-player case.
As has been shown in the experimental literature, coordiantion is more easily sustained with a small number of
players. However, we …nd that as fundamental uncertainty increases it becomes harder to coordinate, even with only
2 players. This result could be ampli…ed by increasing the number of players. It is important to stress that our results
are qualitative since they focus on comparative statics, not point predictions. That is, we posit that agents might be
more likely to coordinate when they have better information, but we are agnostic about actual rates of coordination
(which might depend on number of players, cultural di¤erences, experience, etc.)

4

sentiments arise because of the uncertainty that a player faces regarding the interpretation and/or
use of information by his opponent.
Our paper contributes to the literature that studies coordination games both experimentally
and theoretically. Harsanyi and Selten (1988) de…ne risk dominance and payo¤ dominance as two
contrasting equilibrium re…nements for coordination games with multiple equilibria. They suggest
that in the presence of Pareto ranked equilibria risk dominance is irrelevant since “collective rationality” should select the payo¤-dominant equilibrium. However, experimental evidence highlights
how strategic uncertainty can lead to coordination failure in games with complete information
and Pareto ranked equilibria (see Van Huyck, Battalio, and Beil (1990, 1991), Cooper, DeJong,
Forsythe, and Ross (1990, 1992), or Straub (1995)). More recent literature studies how the information structure a¤ects equilibrium in coordination games. Theoretical contributions include Angeletos and Pavan (2007), Bannier and Heinemann (2005), Colombo, Femminis and Pavan (2014),
Hellwig and Veldkamp (2009), Iachan and Nenov (2015), Pavan (2016), Szkup and Trevino (2015),
and Yang (2015), among others. Darai, Kogan, Kwasnica, and Weber (2017) and Avoyan (2017)
use a global game setting to study experimentally how di¤erent types of public signals and cheap
talk a¤ect coordination outcomes, respectively. Cornand and Heinemann (2014) and Baeriswyl
and Cornand (2016) propose alternative ways of thinking about coordination in experiments about
the closely related family of beauty contest games. This paper also contributes to the literature
that incorporates aspects of bounded rationality to propose alternative equilibrium notions, such as
Nagel (1995), Costa-Gomes and Crawford (2006), McKelvey and Palfrey (1995), Eyster and Rabin
(2005), or Koessler and Jehiel (2008).
The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the theoretical benchmark for the experiment and discusses the role of fundamental and strategic uncertainty in the unique equilibrium
of a global game. Section 3 presents the experimental design and the theoretical predictions for
the parameters used in the experiment. In Section 4 we present our experimental …ndings and
characterize the main departures from the theory. In Section 5 we propose an extension to the
model of Section 2 that allows for sentiments in the perception of strategic uncertainty in an e¤ort
to reconcile our …ndings with the theory and we show the results of additional experiments that we
provide evidence to support it. Section 6 discusses and compares alternative explanations for the
observed departures from the theory and concludes.

2

The model

In this section we describe the theoretical model that serves as a benchmark for our experiment,
which is similar to Carlsson and van Damme (1993), Frankel, Morris, and Pauzner (2003), and
Morris and Shin (2003).
5

2.1

The setup

There are two identical players in the economy, i 2 f1; 2g, who simultaneously choose whether to
take action A or action B. Action B is safe and always delivers a payo¤ of 0. Action A is risky
and has a cost T associated to it. Action A delivers a payo¤ of
fails, where

2 R is a random variable that re‡ects the state of the economy.3

if both players choose action A and
or if

T if it is successful and

>

T if it

Action A succeeds

(the state is high enough to make action A pro…table),

(the state is high enough that the success of action A does not depend on player j’s

choice). The parameters

and

de…ne, respectively, upper and lower dominance regions for the

fundamental. Thus, players face the following payo¤s:
Success
Action A

T

Action B
The state variable

0

Failure
T
0

follows a normal distribution with mean

and variance

2.

Players do

not observe the realization of . However, each player i = 1; 2 observes a noisy private signal about
it:
xi = + "i ,
where

> 0 and "i

N (0; 1). The noise "i is i:i:d: across players and we denote by

probability density function, and

( ) its

( ) its cumulative distribution function. The precision of the

signal that each player receives is determined by its standard deviation, .4

2.2

Equilibrium

The equilibrium of our game can be computed using the standard approach. Since the solution
method has been well established in the literature, we refer an interested reader to papers such as
Carlsson and van Damme (1993), Morris and Shin (2003), or Hellwig (2002) for details. As shown
in these papers, player i = 1; 2 uses a monotone threshold strategy by which he chooses action
A if his signal xi is larger than a threshold x , and he chooses action B otherwise. Given the
use of threshold x by all players, the threshold x is determined by the solution to the following
3
One can think of a number of applications where represents the relevant fundamentals. For example, it can
represent the return to a risky investment or the gain from overthrowing an oppressive regime. In the …rst case, the
action of players would be to invest (A) or not (B). In the second case, the action would be to engage in a political
protest (A) or not (B). We can think of T as an investment cost in the …rst case, or as an opportunity cost in the
second.
4
The precision of a random variable that follows normal distribution is de…ned as the inverse of its variance. In
what follows we use higher precision, lower variance, or lower standard deviation interchangeably to describe the
informativeness of signals.

6

indi¤erence condition:
E

h

Pr (xj > x j ) x ; 2

;

i

+E

h

x ; >

i

T =0

(1)

which states that at the threshold signal x player i is indi¤erent between taking action A and
taking action B.
Proposition 1 is standard in the literature and establishes that the coordination game has a
unique equilibrium as long as the standard deviation of the prior,

, is high enough. Moreover, as

the precision of the signals increases, the optimal thresholds converge to the risk-dominant threshold
for the underlying complete information game, which in our case is equal to 2T .
Proposition 1 Fix

> 0. There exists

> 0 such that for all

<

there exists a unique,

dominance solvable equilibrium in which both players use threshold strategies characterized by x ( ).
Moreover as

& 0 this equilibrium threshold converges to the risk-dominant equilibrium of the

complete information game.

Even though this result has been established in the literature, we provide an indirect proof for
our speci…c setup in the appendix, where this benchmark speci…cation can be easily identi…ed a
special case of the extended model of Section 5. We test these predictions experimentally in an
e¤ort to understand whether subjects use threshold strategies and how these thresholds depend
on the informativeness of signals (determined by

). In particular, the treatment variations in

the signal precision will allow us to approximate the path towards complete information with the
objective to document empirically whether thresholds “converge” to a speci…c equilibrium of the
complete information game.

2.3

Strategic uncertainty

We brie‡y describe how strategic uncertainty in this game depends on the precision of private
signals, which is key to understand why the equilibrium threshold converges to the risk dominant
equilibrium as the signal noise vanishes. We will revisit these concepts in Section 5 when we extend
the model to reconcile the theory with our experimental …ndings.
One typically refers to strategic uncertainty as the uncertainty about the actions of other players
(see Van Huyck et al., (1990) or Brandenburger (1996)). According to this de…nition, strategic
uncertainty is high if a player is very uncertain about the behavior of others. In our model the key
object that allows us to measure strategic uncertainty faced by player i is Pr (xj > x jxi ), which

represents the probability that player i assigns to player j taking action A. If Pr (xj > x jxi ) is
close to 1=2 then player i deems each action by player j almost equally likely and hence faces high

7

strategic uncertainty. On the other hand, if Pr (xj > x jxi ) is close to 0 or 1 then he expects player
j to take a particular action, thus he faces little strategic uncertainty.

The extent of strategic uncertainty that players face in the game varies with . As

decreases,

player i’s signal is closer to the state , so he is able to better estimate player j’s signal. Thus,
for signals xi 6= x if he receives a high (low) signal, he believes that player j also receives a high

(low) signal and he assigns a higher probability to player j choosing action A (action B). Consider

now the case where player i observes the signal xi = x , that is, a signal equal to his opponent’s
threshold. In this case, an increase in the precision of xi will increase strategic uncertainty since
Pr (xj > x jxi = x ) converges monotonically to 1=2. Thus, for signals around x , the strategic
uncertainty faced by player i increases as

decreases. This leads to the limit result in Proposition

1, …rst shown by Carlsson and Van Damme (1993) for homogenous signal distributions.
To summarize, a reduction of fundamental uncertainty (an increase in the precision of private
information) increases strategic uncertainty for intermediate signals (i.e., signals in the neighborhood of x ) and decreases strategic uncertainty for high or low signals. In fact, it is the increase in
strategic uncertainty for intermediate signals that determines the convergence of player i’s threshold
towards risk dominance in the limit, as fundamental uncertainty decreases. Our experimental test
of this model will allow us to investigate whether this relation between strategic and fundamental
uncertainty is consistent with the behavior of subjects.

3

Experimental design

In this section we describe our experimental design and the predictions of the model that we test.
We implement a between subjects design that allows us to directly compare the behavior of subjects
across treatments.
There are two main dimensions in which our treatments vary: the precision of the private signals
and whether beliefs are elicited or not. Table 1 summarizes our experimental design. We vary the
precision of the private signals in the following way: complete information (standard deviation of
0), high precision (standard deviation of 1), medium precision (standard deviation of 10), and low
precision (standard deviation of 20). In the treatments with belief elicitation, we elicit subjects’
beliefs about the state

after observing their signal and, once they have chosen an action, we elicit

their beliefs about the probability they assign to their opponent having chosen actions A and B.
Both elicitations of beliefs are incentivized using a quadratic scoring rule.5
5
Given our interest in studying fundamental and strategic uncertainty one could think of only running session
with belief elicitation. However, we …rst follow a revealed preference approach and focus only on choice data to
study how the behavior of the game varies with the information structure. We do not elicit beliefs in the …rst set
of treatments (1-4 in Table 1) because we do not want to alter the individual reasoning of subjects by drawing
attention to fundamental and strategic uncertainty. However, once we identify systematic deviations from the theory,
we hypothesize that subjective beliefs might be behind these results and test this hypothesis directly with these

8

T R E AT M E N T

1 . C O M P L E T E IN F O R M AT IO N
2 . H IG H P R E C IS IO N
3 . M E D IU M P R E C IS IO N

S IG N A L

B E L IE F

#

P R E C IS IO N

E L IC ITAT IO N

SU BJEC T S

P E R F E C T (sd = 0 )

NO

22

H IG H (sd = 1 )

NO

38
40

M E D IU M (sd = 1 0 )

NO

4 . L O W P R E C IS IO N

L O W (sd = 2 0 )

NO

44

5 . H IG H P R E C IS IO N / B E L IE F S

H IG H (sd = 1 )

YES

22

M E D IU M (sd = 1 0 )

YES

20

L O W (sd = 2 0 )

YES

16

6 . M E D IU M P R E C IS IO N / B E L IE F S
7 . L O W P R E C IS IO N / B E L IE F S

Table 1: Experimental design
Each session of the experiment consists of 50 independent and identical rounds. The computer
randomly selects …ve of the rounds played and subjects are paid the average of the payo¤s obtained
in those rounds, using the exchange rate of 3 tokens per 1 US dollar. In the treatments with belief
elicitation, a sixth round was randomly selected for payment for belief accuracy only. It was made
clear to subjects that the round selected for payment for beliefs would be a di¤erent round from
the ones chosen for payment in the game to avoid hedging.
Subjects are randomly matched in pairs at the beginning of the session and play with the same
partner in all rounds. To avoid framing e¤ects the instructions use a neutral terminology. To avoid
bankruptcies, subjects were endowed with 24 tokens at the beginning of each round.
Before starting the …rst paying round subjects have access to a practice screen where they can
generate signals and they are given an interactive explanation of the payo¤s associated to each
possible action, given their signal and the underlying state .
In each round, a state

is randomly drawn but not shown to subjects. They privately observe

their own private signal of

and simultaneously choose whether to take action A or B. After both

actions have been recorded, subjects receive feedback about their own private signal, their choice of
action, the realization of , how many people in their pair chose action A, whether A was successful
or not, and their individual payo¤ for the round.
The experiment was conducted at the Center for Experimental Social Science at New York
University using the usual computerized recruiting procedures. Each session lasted from 60 to 90
minutes and subjects earned on average $30, including a $5 show up fee. All subjects were undergraduate students from New York University.6 The experiment was programmed and conducted
with the software z-Tree (Fischbacher, 2007). There were a total of 14 sessions and 202 participants.
Our experiment is related to the work of Heinemann et al. (2004) (HNO04 henceforth) who
test the predictions of the model by Morris and Shin (1998) in the laboratory. Unlike HNO04,
our focus is to understand how behavior in a global game changes as we vary the precision of the
additional treatments.
6
Instructions for all treatments can be found at http://econweb.ucsd.edu/~itrevino/pdfs/instructions_st.pdf.

9

private signals.7 Our experiment is also related to Cabrales, Nagel, and Armenter (2007) who
consider a 2-player discrete information version of the global game used in Heinemann et al. (2004)
and investigate whether subjects coordinate on the risk-dominant equilibrium of the underlying
complete information game. It is also related to Du¤y and Ochs (2012) who compare subjects’
behavior in a static and dynamic complete information version of the game used in Heinemann et
al (2004).

3.1

Theoretical predictions for the experiment
; ; ; T;

. In the experiment:

The state

is randomly drawn from a normal distribution with mean

= 50 and standard

deviation

= 50.

The theoretical model is governed by a set of parameters

The coordination region is for values of

=

;

2 [0; 100), that is

= 0 and

= 100.

The cost of taking action A is T = 18.
Given these parametric assumptions we characterize the predictions of the model in the form
of a hypothesis to be tested with our experiment:
Hypothesis 1 skip
a) Under incomplete information subjects use unique equilibrium threshold strategies.
b) Under complete information subjects behave in accordance to the theoretical prediction of
multiplicity of equilibria.
c) Thresholds are increasing in precision and tend towards the risk-dominant threshold.
Given the parameters used in the experiment, the equilibrium threshold when subjects observe
signals with high precision (standard deviation of 1) is 35.31, for medium precision (sd of 10) it is
28.31, and with a low precision (sd of 20) it is 18.73. When subjects have complete information
about , the theory suggests multiple equilibria.8
To understand the intuition behind the predictions for comparative statics of thresholds and
precisions, note that thresholds are low in general when

is high relative to T since this makes the

7
Our experiment also di¤ers from HNO04 in terms of implementation. HNO04 use uniform distributions for the
state and for private signals and they give subjects in each round a block of 10 independent situations (signals) and
subjects have to choose an action for each signal before getting feedback. They then get feedback about the 10 choices
and move on to the next round where they face a new block of 10 decisions. They have 16 rounds of 10 situations
each. Additionally, each game of HNO04 consisted of 15 players, as opposed to our two-player case.
8
This does not rule out the use of threshold strategies, but rather that under multiple equilibria behavior is not
predictable. If subjects were to use thresholds, then multiplicity of equilibria would imply not observing a clear
pattern toward a speci…c threshold.

10

risky action more likely to succeed in expectation.9 This is stronger when the precision of signals
is low, since in this case players assign a high weight to the prior. Thus, for a low precision of
signals the model predicts low thresholds for our choice of parameters. An increase in the precision
of signals has two e¤ects on players’behavior. First, they assign a lower weight to the information
contained in the prior. Second, it increases the correlation between the players’ signals, making
it harder for a player to predict whether his opponent observes a signal higher or lower than his
own, which leads to higher strategic uncertainty for intermediate signals (close to the thresholds).
For our choice of parameters, this means that thresholds will increase as the precision of signals
increases. In the limit, as signals become perfectly informative, this increase in strategic uncertainty
leads players to choose the risk dominant equilibrium of the game, which corresponds to 36 (2T ),
as in the limit they assign probability 1=2 to the other player observing a signal higher or lower
than their own.

4

Experimental results

In this section we present the results from the treatments without belief elicitation in order to
establish patterns in behavior for sessions where subjects have not been made to think about
fundamental and strategic uncertainty. Section 5 presents the results of the treatments with belief
elicitation.
We …rst explain our methodology to estimate thresholds since they are the relevant objects for
our hypotheses. We then test our hypothesis and summarize the departures from the theoretical
predictions found in the data to facilitate the introduction of the extended model in Section 5.3.
Most of the results reported from the experiment pertain to the last 25 rounds to allow for behavior
to stabilize, unless otherwise speci…ed.

4.1

Estimation of thresholds

We say that a subject’s behavior is consistent with the use of threshold strategies if the subject uses
either perfect or almost perfect thresholds. A perfect threshold consists of taking the safe action B
for low values of the signal and the risky action A for high values of the signal, with exactly one
switching point (the set of signals for which a subject chooses A and the set of signals for which
he chooses B are disjoint). For almost perfect thresholds, subjects choose action B for low signal
values and action A for high signal values, but we allow these two sets to overlap for at most three
observations. These two types of behavior are illustrated in Figure 7 in the appendix.
9

See Heinemann and Illing (2002), Bannier and Heinemann (2005), Iachan and Nenov (2014), or Szkup and
Trevino (2015) for detailed theoretical discussions of comparative statics in global games with respect to the precision
of information.

11

Once we identify the subjects who use threshold strategies, we use two di¤erent methods to
estimate their thresholds. For the …rst method we pool the data of all the subjects who use
thresholds in each treatment and …t a logistic function with random e¤ects (RE) to determine the
probability of taking the risky action as a function of the observed signal. The cumulative logistic
distribution function is de…ned as
Pr(A) =

1
1 + exp( + xi )

We estimate the mean threshold of the group by …nding the value of the signal for which
subjects are indi¤erent between taking actions A and B, that is, the value of the signal for which
they would take the risky action with probability 12 , which is given by
HNO04, the standard deviation of the estimated threshold,

. As pointed out by

p ; is a measure of coordination and
3

re‡ects variations within the group. We call this the Logit (RE) method.
For the second method we take the average, individual by individual, between the highest signal
for which a subject chooses the safe action and the lowest signal for which he chooses the risky
action. This number approximates the value of the signal for which he switches from taking one
action to taking the other action. Once we have estimated individual thresholds this way, we take
the mean and standard deviation of the thresholds in the group. We refer to this estimate as the
Mean Estimated Threshold (MET) of the group.

4.2

Hypothesis 1

To study part (a) of Hypothesis 1, we use the procedure described above to determine how many
subjects use thresholds strategies. We …nd that the behavior of 93.44% of subjects is consistent with
the use of threshold strategies. In particular, 97.37% of subjects use thresholds in the high precision
treatment, 92.5% for medium precision, and 90.91% for low precision. This result is qualitatively
similar to HNO04. Table 2 shows the mean estimated thresholds for the di¤erent treatments.
Standard deviations are reported in parenthesis. While we …nd that the vast majority of subjects
use threshold strategies, these thresholds di¤er substantially from the thresholds predicted by the
theory. In particular, we reject to the 1% and 5% levels of signi…cance that the thresholds estimated
for the high precision treatment coincide with the theoretical equilibrium threshold of 35.31, using
the MET and logit methods, respectively. For the treatments with medium and low precision, we
reject to the 1% level that subjects play the equilibrium thresholds of 28.31 and 18.73, respectively,

12

using both methods.10;11
Complete info
22.11
(7.15)
21.07
(11.85)

Logit (RE)
MET
Equilibrium x*
Risk dominant eq.

High precision
27.61
(5.86)
27.42
(19.16)
35.31
36

Medium precision
40.16
(9.13)
40.37
(18.77)
28.31
36

Low precision
35.79
(9.00)
36.23
(23.36)
18.73
36

Table 2: Estimated thresholds and equilibrium predictions
We also reject part (b) of Hypothesis 1 with our data. In the treatment with complete information all of our subjects not only use threshold strategies, but the vast majority of them set their
threshold at the e¢ cient level. Figure 8 and Table 9 in the Appendix show the distribution of
individual thresholds under complete information and summary statistics, respectively, illustrating
that the thresholds of over 77% of our subjects coincide with the e¢ cient threshold of 18. We
interpret the clear use of clean and e¢ cient thresholds by the majority of our subjects in this
treatment as supporting the notion of a unique equilibrium. These …ndings are consistent with the
…ndings of HNO04, who document that subjects play threshold strategies in coordination games
with complete information. This is also consistent with Charness et al (2014) who show e¢ cient
play in coordination games under complete information.
Finally, we also reject part (c) of Hypothesis 1. The thresholds of subjects that are given either
a medium or a low precision are not statistically di¤erent from each other, but they are statistically
higher than the thresholds under high precision.12 This means that the estimated thresholds are
non-increasing on the precision of information and tend towards the e¢ cient threshold obtained
10

We include the risk dominant equilibrium of the underlying complete information game as a benchmark to
compare the behavior of subjects in the private information game, since the global games solution converges to this
equilibrium as the noise in private signals goes to zero (see Carlsson and van Damme, 1993). The thresholds estimated
for high precision are di¤erent to the risk dominant threshold to the 1% level. For the treatments with medium and
low precision we cannot reject the hypothesis that the estimated thresholds coincide with the risk dominant threshold
of 36.
11
The estimations of Table 2 are restricted to subjects who use individual thresholds (93.44% of our sample). If
we include the subjects who do not use individual thresholds, our logit estimates for the di¤erent precisions are:
26.33 (high), 39.69 (medium), and 31.44 (low). Therefore, our qualitative …ndings do not change by including the
full sample.
12
To take into account heterogeneity of individual thresholds within each treatment, we also compare the distributions of individual thresholds across treatments, which corroborate our analysis of mean comparisons. Using a
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, we …nd that the distribution of thresholds for the high precision treatment is signi…cantly
di¤erent from that of the medium precision and low precision treatments (p-values <0.000 and 0.002, respectively),
and that the distributions of thresholds for medium and low precisions are not statistically di¤erent at the 5% level
of signi…cance (they are at the 10% level, p-value of 0.08). We get similar results using a Wilcoxon ranksum test,
whereby we reject the hypothesis that individual thresholds under high precision come from the same distribution
as the thresholds under medium precision (p-value < 0.001) and under low precision (p-value <0.05). However, we
cannot reject the hypothesis that the thresholds under medium and low precision come from the same distribution
(p-value of 0.289).

13

under complete information, and not the risk dominant, as the theory predicts. That is, a high
precision of signals leads to more successful coordination than what is suggested by the theory.13
Table 10 in the appendix reports estimated thresholds for Rounds 1-25 of the experiment to understand if the results we report are a product of learning. As we can see, our qualitative results
are present since the beginning of the experiment.
Table 3 compares the average realized payo¤s in each treatment to the expected equilibrium
and constrained e¢ cient payo¤s that would have arisen if subjects had behaved according to these
benchmarks, for the given realizations of

in each session.14 As we can see, the deviation from

equilibrium under high precision of signals is payo¤ improving, even with respect to the constrained
e¢ ciency benchmark.
Precision
Realized payo¤s

Expected equilibrium
payo¤s
Expected constrained
e¢ cient payo¤s

High
34.54
(8.82)
[32.04, 37.04]
23.62***
(8.77)
[20.41, 26.82]
29.26***
(7.11)
[26.32, 32.21]

Medium
33.3
(13.48)
[30.41, 36.19]
29.1***
(10.42)
[25.83, 32.38]
31.58***
(10.83)
[28.41, 34.75]

Low
29.71
(9.65)
[27.26, 32.16]
31.44***
(5.97)
[28.9, 33.97]
31.68***
(5.96)
[29.16, 34.21]

D i¤e re nt fro m re a liz e d p ayo ¤s a t th e * * * 1 % ; * * 5 % ; * 1 0 % le ve l; sd in p a re nth e se s; C I in b ra cke ts

Table 3: Average payo¤s

4.3

Summary of departures from the theoretical predictions

Our experimental analysis highlights two main empirical departures from the theoretical predictions: (1) thresholds tend to decrease as signals become more precise, rather than increase as
predicted by the theory, and (2) as the signal precision increases, thresholds tend towards the e¢ cient threshold, rather than the risk dominant one. This systematic path to convergence towards
e¢ ciency illustrates an underlying force in the game that is not captured by the theory. These two
discrepancies in our data with respect to the theoretical predictions are illustrated in the left panel
of Figure 1, which plots the estimated thresholds (solid line) and the theoretical predictions for
the di¤erent noise levels (dashed line) and a horizontal line at the risk dominant equilibrium. The
13
Similar e¢ cient thresholds are found in a robustness check with high precision and random rematching in every
round, suggesting that the e¢ cient play that we observe in the experiment is not due to repeated game e¤ects.
14
The constrained e¢ ciency benchmark corresponds to the case where a social planner faces the same informational
constraints as players and chooses actions for both pair members to extract the maximum surplus. Under this
benchmark subjects would still face fundamental uncertainty but not strategic uncertainty.

14

right panel of Figure 1 shows that while estimated thresholds are non-monotone in , the di¤erence
between estimated and theoretical threshold is a monotonic function of .
20
70

15

Threshold

60

10

50

5

40

0

30

-5

20

-10
-15

10
0

10

20

0

10

Standard deviation,

Standard deviation,

Panel A: Comparison of x
b and x

Panel B: Di¤erence between x
b and x

20

Figure 1: Comparison of theoretical thresholds x ( ) and estimated thresholds x
b ( ).

It is worth stressing that these departures from the theoretical predictions are robust in the
sense that we observe them across treatments with di¤erent ways to estimate thresholds, to belief
elicitation (see Section 5.3.1), and they even become starker when the information structure is
endogenously determined by subjects (see Szkup and Trevino (2019)).15

5

Understanding departures from the theory

We have documented two empirical departures from the theory. In order to understand what could
be driving these deviations we go back to the benchmark model of Section 2 and focus on what
happens in the limit, as the signal noise vanishes,

! 0. In this case, one can show that the

indi¤erence condition of player i 2 f1; 2g is approximately given by16
Pr (xj

x jx ) E [ jx ] = T

(2)

Equation (2) tells us that when players’ signals are very precise their equilibrium behavior is
determined by the fundamental uncertainty (captured by E [ jx ]) and the strategic uncertainty

(captured by Pr(xj

x jx )) that players face in equilibrium. This suggests that, under the

assumption that players best-respond to their beliefs, deviations from the theoretical predictions

can be driven by subjective perceptions of fundamental and/or strategic uncertainty. We refer
15
Szkup and Trevino (2019) investigate experimentally costly information acquisition in a global game using the
same experimental protocol.
16
One can show that for a su¢ ciently small , the LHS of Equation (1) is approximately equal
E [ jx ] Pr (xj x jx ). This can be deduced from the fact that in the limit as ! 0, the indi¤erence condition
becomes x Pr (xj x jx ) = T .

15

to these subjective perceptions as sentiments (see Angeletos and La’O, 2013, or Izmalkov and
Yildiz, 2010). Note, however, that as
expected value of

! 0 then E [ jxi ] ! xi , and thus the task of computing the

becomes rather simple. This suggests that, at least in the case of high precision,

departures from the theory observed in the experiment are unlikely to be driven by a subjective
perception of fundamental uncertainty due to sentiments, but rather by sentiments that a¤ect the
perception of strategic uncertainty.
Given this observation, one possible explanation for the disparity between the theory and the
experiment is that subjects exhibit sentiments related to strategic uncertainty and that these sentiments might vary with the precision of private information. In particular, subjects might be
optimistic about the likelihood of others taking the risky action when information is very precise and pessimistic when information is imprecise.17 This intuition is captured in the following
hypothesis.
Hypothesis 2 The behavior of subjects is driven by sentiments in the perception of strategic uncertainty and these sentiments are positively related to the precision of private signals. That is, subjects
exhibit positive sentiments about the likelihood of others taking the risky action when information
is precise, and they exhibit negative sentiments when information is imprecise.
To test this hypothesis we proceed as follows. First, in Section 5.1 we formalize Hypothesis
2 by extending the baseline model of Section 2 to include exogenous sentiments that depend on
the precision of private signals. As discussed above, in the extended model we make two main
assumptions: (1) players form …rst order beliefs correctly, and (2) they exhibit sentiments when they
form beliefs about the action of their opponent, which are a¤ected by precisions as we hypothesize.
We use the extended model to understand whether the presence of such sentiments can rationalize
the thresholds observed in the data.
Second, in Section 5.3 we test Hypothesis 2 experimentally by testing explicitly the two main
assumptions of the extended model. By eliciting beliefs about the state and about the action of
the other player, we can analyze whether subjects form …rst-order beliefs correctly and whether
they exhibit positive sentiments about the behavior of others as we vary the precision of private
information.
In Section 6 we discuss the suitability of alternative equilibrium notions that assume bounded
rationality (such as QRE, limited depth of reasoning, correlated equilibria, and analogy-based
expectation equilibria) and argue that, unlike our extended model, these alternative models cannot
fully organize our experimental …ndings.
17

This observation about how a higher precision might make subjects more optimistic about successful coordination
via a reduction of strategic uncertainty is reminiscent of mechanisms that enhance coordination under complete
information that rely on also decreasing strategic uncertainty via, for example, forward induction (see Crawford and
Broseta (1998) or Camerer (2003) for a survey).

16

5.1

Model with sentiments

In this section we extend the baseline model to accommodate for sentiments in the perception of
strategic uncertainty. We model sentiments as a speci…c form of additive bias when estimating
the probability that the other player takes the risky action. For each i = 1; 2 and j 6= i, let
Pri xj

xj jxi denote the subjective probability that player i assigns to player j taking the risky

action.18 We consider the following speci…c form of subjective beliefs about the action of the other
player:
Pr i xj

xj jxi =

Z1

xj

1

i

( jxi ) d ;

(3)

= 1

where

i 2 R is the sentiment of player i about behavior of player j. Note that when

i forms Bayesian beliefs about player j’s choice of action. If

i = 0, player

i > 0 then player i exhibits positive

sentiments about player j taking the risky action (i.e., his beliefs about the likelihood of player
j taking the risky action are larger than the Bayesian beliefs), while if

i < 0 player i exhibits

negative sentiments about player j’s willingness to coordinate.
The sentiments captured by

i can arise, for example, if player i believes that player j extracts

the information from his private signal xj in a biased way by computing his posterior mean as if his
signal was xj = + "j +

19 Thus, one can interpret
i.

i as measuring player i’s overcon…dence

(or undercon…dence) about player j taking the risky action, which results from player i’s beliefs
about player j’s overestimation (or underestimation) of the value of the state .20 Furthermore, to
be consistent with Hypothesis 2, we assume that sentiments are positively related to the precision
of private signals. That is, @ i =@ < 0: In other words, we assume that players believe that
when information is precise and

i >0

k < 0 otherwise.

In Section B of the Appendix we provide a detailed description and characterization of the
extended model, including proofs of existence and uniqueness of equilibrium, as well as the characterization of these thresholds in the limit, as noise vanishes. In particular, we show that there
exists a unique equilibrium in monotone strategies when private signals are su¢ ciently precise,
similarly to the baseline model. In the unique equilibrium of the extended model the thresholds are
decreasing functions of players’sentiments. This follows directly from our assumption that positive
sentiments for player i imply that, for any signal xi , player i assigns a higher probability to player
j taking the risky action than in the standard model. Moreover, we show that in the limit, as
18

To economize on notation we denote the conditional distribution of given xi by ( jxi ).
We still refer to i as player i’s sentiment (and not player j’s) because the sentiment i is part of player i’s belief
about player j’s beliefs.
20
The formulation of the subjective probability of Equation (3) is also consistent with other interpretations. For
example, it could be the result of introducing uncertainty about the threshold used by player j in equilibrium. If we
de…ne the threshold that player j uses as xj = x
i , then Equation (3) would correspond to the probability that
player i ascribes to player j taking the risky action when he believes that player j’s equilibrium threshold is xj .
19

17

the noise in private signals vanishes, players use the same threshold regardless of the magnitude
of their sentiments. Unlike the standard model, the threshold in the limit di¤ers in general from
the risk-dominant threshold (2T ). When

i ’s increase when precision increases (as we assume), the

limiting threshold tends to the welfare e¢ cient threshold T .
It is important to emphasize that the extended model is meant as a means to understand and
explain our experimental results, which is why we make speci…c assumptions about how sentiments
depend on the signal precision. In what follows we explicitly test these assumptions and …nd empirical support for them. Other authors have stressed the importance of studying sentiments in
games of incomplete information. Izmalkov and Yildiz (2010), for example, study sentiments resulting from a non-common prior. In a macroeconomic setup, Angeletos and La’O (2013) interpret
sentiments as shocks to …rst-order beliefs of endogenous outcomes. Unlike these papers, we assume
a common prior and correct …rst-order beliefs, but we allow sentiments to a¤ect the perception
of strategic uncertainty and to depend on the informativeness of the environment. This characterization is consistent with the dynamics of overcon…dence proposed in the psychology literature,
which could be ampli…ed by strategic motives. If we interpret situations of high uncertainty as
situations where coordination is “harder” for subjects, the negative sentiments that arise under
high fundamental uncertainty are reminiscent of the undercon…dence and pessimism that arise in
individual decision making when tasks are harder, and the positive sentiments under low uncertainty are similar to the overcon…dence or optimism that arise in individual decision making for
easier tasks (see Moore and Cain (2007)). However, we stay agnostic about how sentiments arise.
The answer to this question would require decision theoretic foundations that are beyond the scope
of this paper.

5.2

The extended model and the data

Based on our extended model, Figure 2 depicts the sentiments that rationalize our …ndings. For
this …gure we assume that both players have the same bias and then compute the value of the
bias that is consistent with the observed average threshold. As we can see, even though estimated
thresholds are not monotonic in precision, the estimated sentiments are monotonically increasing
in signal precision, which is consistent with the assumption of the extended model. This is because,
as shown in the right panel of Figure 1, the distance between estimated and theoretical thresholds
is a monotone function of precision.
Figure 2 shows that the presence of sentiments about the action of others can organize our
experimental …ndings. This exercise, however, is silent about the mechanism proposed in Hypothesis
2. In what follows we investigate the empirical validity of the sentiment-based mechanism of
Hypothesis 2 by testing whether subjects form accurate …rst-order beliefs and whether they exhibit

18

1.5
1
0.5
0
-0.5
-1
0

10

20

Figure 2: Sentiments consistent with estimated thresholds.
sentiments about the actions of others that are increasing in the precision of information.

5.3

Experimental test of Hypothesis 2

To test the main assumptions of the extended model that give a formal structure to Hypothesis 2 we
run additional sessions where we elicit subjects’beliefs. The experimental protocol of these sessions
is identical to the previous one (for high, medium, and low precisions), except for two additional
questions that asked subjects to report their best guess about the state

(after observing their

private signals) and the probability they assign to their opponent taking each possible action (after
choosing their own action and before getting feedback).
The elicited beliefs allow us to understand the subjects’perception of fundamental uncertainty
(via their reports about the value of the state) and of strategic uncertainty (via their reports about
the probability of their opponent taking the risky action) and thus identify the type of sentiments
that might arise under di¤erent signal precisions. We …rst focus …rst on subjects’…rst-order beliefs
and …nd support for our assumption that the observed departures from the theory are not driven
by sentiments related to fundamentals. We then analyze the elicited beliefs about the actions of
others.
5.3.1

Preliminaries

Before we analyze the elicited beliefs we estimate the thresholds for these additional sessions to
con…rm that the departures from the theory presented in Section 4 are also present in the new
data set. As we can see in Table 4, when we elicit beliefs the estimated thresholds are decreasing
in precision, contradicting the theoretical predictions. These results are in fact starker than in
the treatments without belief elicitation, since now the estimated thresholds are monotonically

19

decreasing in precision.21 Figure 9 in the appendix plots the mean estimated thresholds under
the two treatment conditions. These starker thresholds can be due to the salience created by
the elicitation of beliefs, since it has been documented that eliciting beliefs might a¤ect the way
subjects play the game by accelerating best-response behavior (see Croson (2000), Gächter and
Renner (2010) or Rutström and Wilcox (2009)).22 This is intuitive because belief elicitation forces
subjects to think about fundamental and strategic uncertainty, thus putting more structure to their
thought process. The thresholds of Table 4 will serve as the reference thresholds for the analysis
that follows.

Logit (RE)
MET
Equilibrium x*
Risk dominant eq.

High precision
19.24
(4.71)
19.24
(7.64)
35.31
36

Medium precision
28.76
(8.76)
29.36
(22.61)
28.31
36

Low precision
40.72
(11.02)
39.85
(27.92)
18.73
36

Table 4: Estimated thresholds and equilibrium predictions, belief elicitation.
5.3.2

Perception of fundamental uncertainty

We …rst show that, consistent with our hypothesis, subjects do not seem to exhibit sentiments in
their perception of fundamental uncertainty. Let

B
i denote the stated belief of subject i about

. Table 5 shows the mean and median di¤erences in absolute value between the stated beliefs
about the state and the true state (j B
i
the observed signal (j B
i

j), and between the stated beliefs about the state and

xi j), for each level of precision. As expected, subjects rely on their

signals more and form more accurate beliefs about the state when signals are very precise, and this
decreases as signals become noisier.

Precision
Mean
Median
St. dev.

High
1.19
0.88
3.79

j B
i

j

Medium
10.41
7.38
28.33

Low
19.59
17.45
14.57

High
0.83
0.55
3.84

j B
i

xi j

Medium
7.02
4.81
27.5

Low
12.24
9.99
12.72

Table 5: Di¤erences in absolute value between …rst order beliefs, the true state, and observed
signals, by precision.
To further evaluate the accuracy of subjects’…rst order beliefs, we estimate the weights assigned
21

Recall that in the treatments without belief elicitation thresholds were non-increasing in precision and the distance
between the estimated and theoretical thresholds was monotonically decreasing in precision.
22
For a survey on belief elicitation, see Schotter and Trevino (2015).

20

to the private signal and to the prior when forming beliefs about .23 We can see in Table 6 that
subjects put higher weights on the private signal as its precision increases and that the mean and
median weights are very close to the Bayesian weights for high and medium precision. For a low
precision subjects seem to assign a higher weight to private signals than Bayes’rule implies.24
Precision

High

Medium

Low

wiBayes
Mean (wi )
Median (wi )
St. dev. (wi )

0.99
0.98
1.00
0.14

0.96
0.97
0.94
0.53

0.86
0.93
0.98
0.54

Table 6: Estimated weights given to private signals, by precision.
Finally, we directly compare the theory’s Bayesian beliefs and subjects’ stated beliefs. To do
so, in Figure 3 we divide the space of private signals into intervals of length 10 and calculate the
average reported belief of subjects (solid line) and the average theoretical belief (dashed line) about
for the signals that fall into each interval.25 We …nd that the average reported and theoretical
beliefs are very close to each other, particularly in the case of high and medium precision. This
further suggests that sentiments in the perception of fundamental uncertainty are an unlikely driver
of our experimental results.
To summarize, the fact that subjects set signi…cantly lower thresholds than those suggested
by equilibrium when the signal precision is high is unlikely to be explained by sentiments about
fundamentals, since subjects seem to form …rst order beliefs relatively well.
5.3.3

Perception of strategic uncertainty

In this section, we study the stated beliefs about the actions of others to test whether sentiments
about strategic uncertainty can explain the results presented in Section 4.
In Figure 4 we compare the elicited and theoretical beliefs about the probability of the opponent
taking the risky action for a given signal. Just as in Figure 3, we divide the space of private signals
23

We assume that beliefs are linear in the prior mean and in their signal (as Bayes’ rule prescribes) but we
allow for the possibility that players use non-Bayesian weights. In particular, we postulate that subject i’s stated
B
belief B
wi ) . According to Bayes’ rule, the correct weight of the private signal is
i satis…es i = wi xi + (1
2
Bayes
wx
=
.
To
estimate
w
for
each subject i, we back out these weights for the last 25 rounds. We then take
i
2
2
+

the average of the implied weights to obtain subject i’s average weight wi . To eliminate reports that seem to be a
result of mistakes (for example reporting belief of 586 when signal was 4:02) we only consider weights that belong
to the interval [ 2; 3]. Finally, we consider only reports by subjects that use perfect or almost perfect thresholds.
24
One might ponder that subjects can exhibit base rate neglect and that this could explain some of the observed
departures, but this is not the case. As Table 11 in the Appendix shows, even if all players neglected the prior
the corresponding thresholds would still be increasing in the precision of signals and converge to the risk-dominant
equilibrium from below.
25
The gap in the plots of reported and theoretical beliefs for the case of high precision is due to no signals falling
into those intervals in the experiment.

21

150

150

100

100

50

50

100

50

0

0

0

Avg. Reported Belief
Avg. Theoretical Belief

0

50

100

-50
-50

High precision

Figure 3: Average beliefs about

0

50

100

150

-50
-50

Medium Precision

0

50

100

150

Low Precision

and theoretical beliefs about , by signal realization.

into intervals of length 10 and calculate the average belief reported for the signals that fall into each
interval (solid line with squares). The theory’s Bayesian beliefs are portrayed in the dashed line
with diamond). We also plot the average action of the subjects that observed those signals, which
approximates the true probability of taking the risky action (dashed line with triangles). That is,
we look at the actions taken by the subjects that observe the signals in each interval and calculate
the frequency with which they, as a group, took the risky action.26
The graphs in Figure 4 support our hypothesis. Average beliefs are in general higher than
equilibrium beliefs for a high signal precision. The opposite is true for low signal precision.27 Thus,
the signi…cantly lower thresholds associated with a high precision in Table 4 can be explained
by the positive sentiments that re‡ect optimistic beliefs about the intention of the opponent to
coordinate (left panel of Figure 4).28 In particular, at the estimated threshold of 19.24 we can see
that subjects assign a signi…cantly higher probability to their opponent coordinating than what
the theory suggests (measured by the vertical distance between the two lines), thus rationalizing
this behavior. Likewise, the signi…cantly higher thresholds associated with a low precision can be
explained by negative sentiments that translate into pessimistic beliefs about the intention of the
opponent to coordinate (bottom panel of Figure 4). Notice that elicited beliefs are more aligned
to equilibrium beliefs for medium precision (center panel of Figure 4). This is also consistent with
the estimated thresholds of Table 4, since the mean thresholds of subjects in this treatment are not
statistically di¤erent from the equilibrium prediction. The distributions of elicited and equilibrium
26
If a subject took the safe action we assign a 0 and if he took the risky action we assign a 1. We then average
these numbers across all the signals that fall into each interval and get a number between 0 and 1 that represents the
true probability with which subjects took the risky action.
27
The high reported beliefs for negative signals in the low precision treatment are mainly due to a low number of
observations and subjects who observe low signal reporting a 50-50 chance of their opponent taking either action for
any signal realization. This supports our hypothesis that a high fundamental uncertainty leads to the perception of
high strategic uncertainty.
28
We could also think of the complete information treatment as a way to understand strategic uncertainty under
high precision. Subjects might percieve the high precision treatment as being very close to complete information,
thus translating the optimistic beliefs that lead them to coordinate on the e¢ cient threshold to this setup.

22

High precision ( = 1)

Medium precision ( = 10)

Low precision ( = 20)

Figure 4: Average beliefs about the action of the opponent, average action chosen by subjects, and
theoretical probabilities, by signal realization.
beliefs are statistically di¤erent to each other to the 1% level of signi…cance using a KolmogorovSmirnov test, for all levels of precision. Finally, note that the beliefs reported by subjects are very
close to the true actions observed in the experiment, suggesting that subjects best-respond to their
beliefs and, as a consequence, that their threshold behavior could be rationalized by equilibrium
behavior in our extended model. Figure 10 in the appendix reports the same graphs as Figure 4
for rounds 11-50 (as opposed to rounds 26-50 as in Figure 4) to show that this sentiment-based
behavior is present early in the experiment, so it is not a product of excessive learning.
Therefore, the results of these additional sessions support Hypothesis 2 and provide evidence for
a subjective perception of strategic uncertainty where sentiments switch from negative to positive
as we move from an environment with high fundamental uncertainty to one with low fundamental
uncertainty.

23

6

Discussion of alternative models

We have argued that the departures from the theoretical predictions can be explained by sentiments that a¤ect beliefs about the behavior of others. However, one may wonder whether other
commonly used models of bounded rationality in games can explain the departures from the theoretical predictions that we observe in our experiment. In this section we discuss and estimate
popular bounded rationality models in the context of our game. We focus on cursed equilibrium,
quantal response equilibrium, analogy-based expectation equilibrium, and level-k and cognitive hierarchy. We also investigate whether modifying the standard global games model by assuming that
players are risk-averse, as opposed to risk neutral, could help to reconcile the model with the data.
Details about these models can be found in Sections C to F in the Appendix.
In summary, none of these models can fully explain the observed departures from the theory; at
least, not without strong assumptions. The main issue is that most of these models still predict that
as information becomes precise the equilibrium converges to the risk-dominant equilibrium. The
level-k model could potentially explain our results, but only if one assumes a particular relationship
between signal precisions and the primitives of the level-k belief hierarchy, which is hard to justify.
Cursed equilibrium Cursed equilibrium (CE) (Eyster and Rabin (2005)) relaxes the assumption that players form correct beliefs about their opponents in a very particular way. In this
model,

measures the degree of “cursedness” of a player, that is, with probability

a player

believes that his opponent randomizes his action choice uniformly and with the remaining probability he forms Bayesian beliefs. Therefore,

= 0 corresponds to full rationality and

= 1 to full

cursedness.
40

40

40

30

30

30

20

20
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

High precision

0.8

1

CE threshold
theoretical threshold
estimated threhold

0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

20
1

0

Medium Precision

Figure 5: Comparison of cursed equilibrium thresholds for di¤erent values of
and the estimated thresholds

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

Low Precision

with the theoretical

Figure 5 shows the predictions of CE thresholds in our game for di¤erent values of , for each
precision level. As we can see, this speci…c departure from Bayesian beliefs cannot organize our
…ndings. In particular, regardless of the value of
24

, when precision is high or medium the CE

threshold (solid line) lies far from the thresholds estimated in our data (dashed line with markers).
For low precision the CE threshold lies close to the estimated threshold for high values of
However, high levels of

are hard to justify empirically as high

.

implies that subjects to believe

that with high probability the other subjects behave randomly. This is in contrast to elicited beliefs
which suggest that the majority of subjects expect their opponents to adjust their behavior with
their signal (and, thus, behave consistently with use of threshold strategies).
CE predicts that thresholds converge to the risk dominant equilibrium in the limit, which is
in contrast to our …nding that thresholds tend toward the e¢ cient equilibrium as signals get very
precise. The intuition is simple. When

= 0 we recover the standard model where equilibrium

thresholds converge to the risk dominant threshold as

! 0. On the other hand, when

= 1

players expect their opponents to randomize their actions uniformly, so the CE thresholds coincide
with the risk dominant threshold.
Quantal response equilibrium

An equilibrium concept that is widely used to organize ex-

perimental data is quantal response equilibrium (QRE) as introduced to the literature by McKelvey
and Palfrey (1995) (see also Goeree, Holt, and Palfrey (2016)). Unlike our extended model that
allows for sentiments in belief formation but where players best-respond to their beliefs, QRE assumes that players form correct beliefs, but that they sometimes make mistakes when choosing an
action. According to QRE, deviations from the Nash Equilibrium actions are less likely to occur
when the cost of making a mistake increases.
To see whether our empirical results can be explained by this concept we compute numerically
the symmetric logit QRE for di¤erent values of , which captures the likelihood of mistakes ( = 0
implies random behavior,

! 1 converges to Nash Equilibrium). Then, for each , we feed the

observed signal realizations from the experiment into the logit QRE best-response function to derive
QRE predictions for the realized signals in the experiment.29 Figure 6 compares the simulated QRE
thresholds to the theoretical thresholds and the thresholds estimated in the experiment.
Each panel in Figure 6 depicts, each precision level, the estimated QRE threshold using our
simulated data (the solid line), the theoretical threshold (the dashed line), and the estimated
threshold from the experiment (the dashed-dotted line with markers). The the shaded area depicts
one standard deviation bounds for the simulated QRE thresholds, which is a measure of coordination
(wide bounds imply poor coordination of actions across agents). Figure 6 shows that the logit QRE
predictions cannot explain our …ndings. As shown in the middle and right panels, there does not
exist a value of

when precision is medium or low that could rationalize our …ndings. In both cases,

the estimated QRE threshold using our simulated data lies below the threshold we estimate with
29

Since each simulation includes random elements (whether an agent chooses the action A or B given his signal
is random), we repeat this simulation 100 times. For each simulation we compute QRE thresholds using the Logit
method (see Section 4) and then take the average.

25

100

100

100

50

50

50

0

0

0
QRE threshold
theoretical threshold
estimated threshold

-50
-50

-50

-100
0.1

0.2

0.3

0.4

0.5

High precision

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.4

0.5

0.1

Medium Precision

Figure 6: Comparison of estimated QRE threshold for di¤erent values of
estimated thresholds

0.2

0.3

0.4

0.5

Low Precision

with the theoretical and

our experimental data, for any . Only in the case of high precision (the left panel), there exists
a value of

(

0:05) that can rationalize the threshold observed in our experiment. However,

this QRE threshold is associated a lot of random action choices, illustrated by the large standard
deviation in the shaded area. In contrast, in our experimental data we see very clear and clean
individual thresholds under high precision and a low standard deviation.
Level-k and cognitive hierarchy

Another possibility to explain our …ndings is to think

about how di¤erent signal precisions can a¤ect the level of reasoning of subjects according to models
like level-k and cognitive hierarchy (see, for example, Nagel (1995), Costa-Gomes and Crawford
(2006)). These models assume that players have limited depths of reasoning, with a player who
can perform k iterations called a level-k type. Level-0 are assumed to be non-strategic types who
randomize their actions according to a pre-speci…ed distribution, and all players of level-k with
k > 1 best respond to their exogenous belief distribution over lower types (see Strzalecki (2014) for
a general formulation of this model).
In the context of global games, Kneeland (2016) shows that the results from HNO04 are more
in line with a model of limited depth of reasoning than with equilibrium play. In particular,
level-k explains the use of threshold strategies under complete information (as is found in our
data). In order for this model to organize our …ndings we would need to allow the distribution
of players with di¤erent levels of reasoning to vary with the precision of information. We …nd
that, holding the behavior of level-0 players constant across treatments, a level-k model where the
distribution of depths of reasoning varies with precision cannot rationalize the thresholds observed
in the experiment. If we were to allow the behavior of level-0 players to also vary with precision
then a level-k model could rationalize our …ndings. However, this would imply that level-0 players
would be somewhat strategic, contradicting a standard assumption about level-0 types.30 Thus,
30
Alaoui and Penta (2015) interpret the level-k model as an optimization problem where players perform a costbene…t analysis to determine their level of reasoning in the game. In the context of our experiment, one could imagine

26

while a level-k model could potentially explain our results, it would require a number of strong
assumptions about the relationship between signal precision and the primitives of the level-k belief
hierarchy and it would be hard to justify its use other than by saying that it matches the data.
Analogy-based expectation equilibrium Jehiel (2005) and Koessler and Jehiel (2008)
argue that it is implausible to assume that players understand their opponents’strategy state-bystate. Instead, they argue that it is more likely that players bundle nearby state into bins (which
they refer to as analogy partitions) when forming their beliefs about other players’strategies and
they best respond to the opponents’ average action in each bin. This leads to the concept of
analogy-based expectation equilibrium (ABEE).
The ABEE has intuitive appeal and can be applied to global games. Koessler and Jehiel (2008)
suggest that using the coarsest equilibrium partition can help to explain why players are likely to
use thresholds that a closer to welfare optimal threshold than predicted by the theory of global
games. We follow Koessler and Jehiel (2008) and compute the implied threshold when players use
the coarsest analogy partition in our model. However, as Table 7 shows the ABEE with coarsest
analogy partition cannot explain the fact that subjects tend to use high thresholds when information
is imprecise and low thresholds otherwise.

ABEE threshold

High
26.40

Medium
25.27

Low
20.58

Table 7: ABEE predictions under the coarsest analogy partition, by precision level
If we allow for …ner partitions, two issues arise. First, in a model with a continuum of states
such as ours there is an uncountable number of di¤erent partitions that one can consider, so it
is not clear what would constitute a “reasonable” partition.31 Second, multiple equilibria tend to
emerge when we consider partitions that are coarse, but …ner than the coarsest possible partition.
Notwithstanding these issues, in Section D of the Appendix, we propose an intuitive way to compute
…ner analogy partitions for our model and show that for any partition we consider (1) thresholds
are increasing in precision and (2) the ABEE implied threshold for low precision is always lower
than the threshold observed in the data.
that di¤erent precisions can a¤ect the distribution of levels played because the signal precision a¤ects the expected
payo¤, and thus the bene…t of taking the risky action. Even if this could imply a di¤erent proportion of level-0 players
for di¤erent precisions, it should not a¤ect the way in which a level-0 player behaves. If level-0 behavior depended
on the informativeness of the environment, then level-0 players would be somewhat strategic, thus violating the main
postulate in the literature about level-0 players being non-strategic.
31
Jehiel (2005) and Jehiel and Koessler (2008) develop ABEE for games with …nitely many states only. One would
need to develop a theory of what constitutes a reasonable partition with a continuum of states.

27

Risk aversion

Standard global games models assume that players are risk neutral. One could

wonder if assuming risk aversion (RA) could help explain our experimental …ndings. In Section
F of the Appendix we extend the standard model of Section 2 to allow for RA and show that if
agents have CRRA utility then the individual thresholds are increasing in the level of RA. Thus,
RA would push thresholds above the risk-dominant threshold in the limit as information becomes
perfectly precise, which is not consistent with our …ndings. Nevertheless, we estimate what levels
of RA would rationalize our …ndings.
Table 8 reports the coe¢ cients of RA needed to predict the estimated thresholds using the
Logit and MET methods. As we see, in order to explain our experimental …ndings, not only would
subjects have to be risk-averse when their signal are imprecise and risk-loving when their signals
are precise, but also exhibit an extremely high degree of risk-seeking behavior when the noise in
the signal vanishes (i.e.,

! 0). That is, in order to rationalize the observed thresholds when

! 0 the required CRRA coe¢ cient would have to be

3:42 for the logit and

4:65 for the MET.

Such large changes in risk attitudes and such an extreme degree of risk-seeking behavior are hard
to justify given the typical estimations of risk attitudes in the literature.
Precision level
Complete info
High
Medium
Low

Logit
-3.42
-0.83
0.47
0.55

MET
-4.65
-0.87
0.48
0.56

Table 8: Estimated risk aversion coe¢ cients needed to rationalize the estimated thresholds in the
experiment for di¤erent precision levels

7

Conclusions

In this paper we have studied how changes in the information structure a¤ect behavior in global
games. We identify two main departures from the theoretical predictions: (1) the comparative
statics of thresholds with respect to signal precisions are reversed, and (2) as the signal noise
decreases, subjects’ behavior tends towards the e¢ cient threshold, not the risk-dominant one.
These departures have signi…cant welfare e¤ects.
To reconcile our …ndings with the theory, we hypothesize that the observed departures are due
to sentiments in the perception of strategic uncertainty and that these sentiments are anchored to
the degree of fundamental uncertainty in the environment. This is in contrast to the mechanism of
the theory where strategic uncertainty increases for intermediate signals as fundamental uncertainty
decreases. To give a formal structure to our hypothesis, we extend the baseline global games model
to account for sentiments in the formation of beliefs about the action of the other player that are
28

directly in‡uenced by the precision of private signals. In particular, players are optimistic about
the desire of their opponent to coordinate when information is very precise, and pessimistic when
the signal noise increases.
We validate our hypothesis by explicitly testing the two main assumptions of our extended
model using observations from additional experiments where we elicit subjects’ beliefs about the
state and about the actions of others. On the one hand, subjects form …rst order beliefs accurately,
given a level of precision, suggesting that sentiments related to fundamental uncertainty are not the
driver of our results. On the other hand, we show that the disparity between stated and theoretical
beliefs about the actions of others responds directly to the precision of private signals. Moreover,
subjects best-respond to these subjective beliefs since the elicited beliefs coincide with the observed
behavior in the experiment. Thus we document how sentiments about the perception of strategic
uncertainty can crucially a¤ect outcomes in a game. Our extended model and the evidence that
supports it propose a novel mechanism to understand behavior in environments characterized by
strategic complementarities and incomplete information.
The optimism/pessimism that drives the sentiments that we identify and characterize in this
paper is di¤erent to the one typically studied in the behavioral literature, which focuses mainly on
individual decision making environments. Our sentiments are intrinsic to strategic environments,
since they a¤ect the perception of strategic uncertainty. However, the relationship between sentiments and uncertainty in the environment is consistent with the characterization in the psychology
literature on the dynamics of overcon…dence if we interpret situations of high fundamental uncertainty as “harder” environments for subjects to coordinate. It is also possible that changes in the
perception of strategic uncertainty are related to ambiguity aversion. Subject might perceive the
behavior of others as a source of hard-to-quantify uncertainty, particularly when their signals are
imprecise. Understanding the mechanisms that lead to the observed deviations from the theoretical
predictions from …rst principles is an important avenue for future research.
Our results can also shed some light on recent stylized facts in macroeconomics. For example,
our sentiments-based mechanism can help explain how recessions are associated with heightened
uncertainty by noticing that an increase in uncertainty leads to negative sentiments about the
likelihood of a pro…table risky investment (via pessimism about others investing). This leads to
lower levels of aggregate investment, which amplify a recession. This observation reconciles the
views of Bloom (2009) and Angeletos and La’O (2013) and Benhabib et al. (2015). In terms
of policy making, our results suggest that greater transparency in …nancial regulation might be
bene…cial in environments with strategic complementarities, like bank runs, since an increase in
transparency can lead to positive sentiments about the likelihood of others rolling over their loans,
which leads to less early withdrawals and greater …nancial stability.

29

Appendix

1
ACTION
0

ACTION

1

Additional experimental results

0

-100

-50

0

50
SIGNAL

100

150

-100

0

100

200

SIGNAL

(a ) P e rfe c t th re sh o ld

(b ) A lm o st p e rfe c t th re sh o ld

2

4

6

Frequency
8
10 12

14

16

18

Figure 7: Examples of perfect and almost perfect thresholds.

0

A

-15

-10

-5

0

5

10

15 20 25
Threshold

30

35

40

45

50

Figure 8: Distribution of individual thresholds under complete information.

Mean
Median
St. dev.

21.07
18.87
12.13

Table 9: Summary statistics of individual thresholds under complete information

Logit (RE)

Complete info
18.22
(12.65)

High precision
19.78
(31.45)

Medium precision
35.49
(26.9)

Table 10: Estimated thresholds for Rounds 1-25

30

Low precision
33.82
(28.68)

30

Threshold

70
60

20

50

10

40

0
30

-10

20

-20

10
0

10

20

0

10

20

Standard deviation,

Standard deviation,

Panel A: Comparison of x
b and x

Panel B: Di¤erence between x
b and x

Figure 9: Comparison of theoretical thresholds x ( ), estimated thresholds x
b ( ), and estimated
thresholds with belief elicitation x
b ( ).
Precision
Thresholds with base rate neglect
Thresholds without base rate neglect

High
35.43
35.31

Medium
30.36
28.31

Low
24.65
18.73

Table 11: Thresholds predicted by the theory when players neglect the prior and when they do not,
by precision

High precision ( = 1)

Medium precision ( = 10)

Low precision ( = 20)

Figure 10: Average beliefs about the action of the opponent and theoretical probabilities for rounds
11-50, by signal realization.we do not take into account the …rst 10 rounds because there is a lot of
noise in the data, possibly due to subjects being acquainted with the interface and understanding
the game.

B

Model with sentiments in belief formation - FOR ONLINE
PUBLICATION

In this section we formally present the extended model with sentiments. We consider a more
general version of the model than presented in Section 5:1 by relaxing the assumption that players’s
31

sentiments are common knowledge. Instead, in what follows, we assume that player i believes that
player j’s sentiment takes one of the possible values from the set A 2 f 1 ;

2 ; :::;

player j believes that player i’s sentiment takes one of the possible values f 1 ;

N g.

2 ; :::;

Similarly,

N g.

Note that both the baseline model presented in Section 2 and our extended model presented in

Section 5:1 are special cases of this general model. In particular, the baseline model corresponds to
the case when A = f0g; that is, players form unbiased beliefs about other player’s action. Therefore,
Proposition 1 stated in Section 2.2 is an immediate corollary of Proposition 2 proved below. The

extended model presented in Section 5:1 corresponds to the case when it is common knowledge that
sentiment of player i is

B.1

i and the sentiment of player j is

j.

The model

For each player i = 1; 2 and j 6= i, expression 3 in the main text de…nes the subjective probability
that player i assigns to player j taking the risky action. For simplicity, we assume that the set
of possible sentiments is …nite and ordered, that is,
denote the types of players i and j as the tuples ffxi ;

k 2 f 1;

k g ; fxj ;

2 ; :::;

N g where,

k <

k+1 .

We

l gg and assume that the presence

of the opponent’s sentiment is common knowledge but not its magnitude. Instead, player i believes
that

l 2 f 1;

2 ; :::;

N g and assigns probability g ( l ) to player j’s sentiment being equal to

l,

for each l = 1; :::; N . Thus, each player is uncertain not only about the signal that the other player
observes but also about the magnitude of his opponent’s sentiment. Finally, while player i takes
into account the possibility that player j has positive or negative sentiments about the probability
that he himself takes the risky action, player i thinks that his own assessment of the probability
that player j’s takes the risky action is objective.32
Let xi ( k ) denote the threshold above which player i takes the risky action when his sentiment
is equal to

k.

De…nition 1 (Sentiments equilibrium) A pure strategy symmetric Bayesian Nash Equilibrium
in monotone strategies is a set of thresholds fxi (ak )gN
k=1 for each player i = 1; 2 such that for each
i and each k = 1; :::; N , the threshold xi (ak ) is the solution to
N
X
l=1

g ( l)

Z

1

xj ( l )

( jxi ( k )) d +

k

Z1

where xj ( l ) is the threshold of player j 6= i when he exhibits sentiment
32

( jxi ( k )) d = T

(4)

33
l , l 2 f1; :::; N g.

This is similar to the literature on overcon…dence (see for example García et al. (2007)).
Since player i has to take into account that the threshold of player j depends on the magnitude of his own
sentiments, the indi¤erence condition of player i with sentiment k includes the summation over all possible biases
that player j may have.
33

32

n
o
Notice that we now have 2N equilibrium conditions. Any set of thresholds xi ( k ) ; xj ( l )

k;l=1;:::;N

that solves this system of equations constitutes an equilibrium. The next proposition establishes
that the extended model has a unique equilibrium with sentiments when the noise of the private
signals is small enough.
Proposition 2 Consider the extended model.
1. There exists

> 0 such that for all

2 (0; ] the extended model has a unique equilibrium in

monotone strategies which is symmetric. In this equilibrium x ( k ) > x ( l ) for all k < l
where k; l 2 f1; :::; N g.
2. As

! 0 we have

x ( k ) ! x for all k 2 f1; :::; N g

(5)

where
x =

T
N
P

g ( k)

k=1

B.2

.34
pk
2

Proof of Proposition 2

In order to prove Proposition 2 we …rst show that the equilibrium exists and is unique in the limit
as

! 0. Then, we show that there exists

> 0 such that for all

<

the model with sentiments

has a unique equilibrium away from the limit. We …nd it more convenient to work with precisions
of signals and the prior, denoted by

x and

, respectively, rather than standard deviations.35

We will make use of two results:
Lemma 2 Consider a sequence fcn g1
n=1

[a; b]. If every convergent subsequence of cn has the

same limit L, then cn is convergent sequence with a limit L.
Note that this result allows us to focus on convergent subsequences in our analysis of limiting
behavior of thresholds and then, if we con…rm the hypothesis of the above Lemma, we know this
limiting behavior is passed onto the sequence itself.
Lemma 3 Let F :

! Rn where

is a rectangular region of Rn . Let J (x) be the Jacobian of

the mapping F . If J (x) is a diagonally dominant matrix with strictly positive diagonal then F is
globally univalent on

.36

p
N
More precisely, the above limit applies if and only if T
k= 2
k=1 g ( k )
p
N
T
> then in the limit x ( k ) = for all k = 1; :::; N .
k= 2
k=1 g ( k )
35
Recall that precision of a random variable distributed according to P
N ; 2 is de…ned as =
36
A square matrix A is called strictly diagonally dominant if jAii j >
jAij j for each row i.
34

j6=i

33

.
2

.

If

Proof. See Parthasarathy (1983).
Suppose that players use thresholds fx ( l )gN
l=1 where x ( l ) is the threshold used by a player

with sentiment

l.

Given the vector of thresholds fx ( k )gN
k=1 the indi¤erence condition for a

player with sentiment

k is given

V x ( k ) ; fx ( l )gN
l=1 = 0
where

V x ( k ) ; fx (

N
l )gl=1

=

N
X
l=1

g ( l)

Z

"

x ( l)

1

x

k

1=2

and

xx

f ( jx ( k )) = ( x +

)1=2

( x+

!#

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

Z 1
f ( jx ( k )) d +
f ( jx ( k )) d T
!

Our goal is to show that the system of equations de…ned by
V x ( 1 ) ; fx ( l )gN
l=1 = 0
..
.

V x ( N ) ; fx ( l )gN
l=1 = 0
has a unique solution. The proof boils down to establishing that the mapping V : RN ! RN

de…ned by the LHS of the above system of equations is univalent, which, by the Gale-Nikaido
Theorem, implies that there exists a unique vector of thresholds that satis…es the above system
of indi¤erence conditions. As Lemma 3 indicates, it is enough to show that the Jacobian of V is
diagonally dominant.
B.2.1

Equilibrium in the limit as

x !1

We …rst establish uniqueness of equilibrium in the limit as the precision of private signals tends to
in…nity. Throughout this section it is convenient to make the following substitution in the players’
indi¤erence conditions:

xx

z=

( x+

The payo¤ indi¤erence condition becomes

34

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

N
X

g ( l)

l=1

L( ;x ( k ))"
Z

L( ;x ( k ))

z
( x+
+

1

xx

+

)2

Z1

L( ;x ( k ))

"

where

( x+

( x+

We now compute the limit as
that for a su¢ ciently high
that x ( k ;

0

41

z

xx

L ( ; x ( k )) =

#2

( k) +
x +

)1=2

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

@

xx

+

)1=2
1=2
x

( x+

#

( k) +
x +

xx

z

x ( l)

(z) dz

; x ( k) =

k A5

( x+

(z) dz

(6)

T =0

xx

and L

13

( k )+
x+

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

x ! 1 of the LHS of Equation (6). It is straightforward to show

x we have x

; +

( k) 2 T

x ) has a convergent subsequence.

for some

> 0. Thus, it follows

In what follows we work with this subsequence.

However, to keep notation simple we slightly abuse notation and talk about limiting behavior
x ( k;

x ) as

x ! 1, rather than behavior of x

limn!1

n = 1.
x

( k;

n ) where
x

n is an increasing sequence with
x

Claim 4 We have
1. lim x !1 x ( l ; x ) = lim x !1 x ( k ; x ) for all k; l 2 f1; :::; N g.37
h
i
1=2
2. lim x !1 x (x ( l ; x ) x ( k ; x )) 2 R
Proof. (Part 1) We establish this by contradiction. Without loss of generality suppose that
l < k. It is straightforward to see that for a su¢ ciently high

x we have x

( l;

x) > x

( k;

that a player who has a larger sentiment uses a lower threshold. Therefore, lim x !1 x ( l ;
lim x !1 x ( k ;

x)

x ).

Now suppose that lim x !1 x ( l ;

x ) > lim x !1 x

( k;

x ).

It follows that for some m 2

f1; :::; N g we have
lim x ( m ;

x !1

x ) so

x)

lim x ( k ;

x !1

x)

0 then

lim x ( m ;

x !1

At this point we have to consider two cases: (1) lim x !1 x ( l ;

x)

x) <

lim x ( l ;

x !1

x) < 0

and (2) lim x !1 x ( l ;

x) =

37
Intutively, if x ( l ) > x ( k ) then when a player with sentiment l receives a high signal he is not only sure that
a player with sentiment k or lower takes the risky action, but also expects to earn x ( l ) when the risky action is
successful. On the other hand, a player with sentiment k can at most expect all players with sentiment k or lower
to take the risky action and expects to receive x ( k ) when the risky action is successful. In the limit, this implies
that either a player with sentiment l strictly prefers taking the risky action to taking the safe action or a player
with sentiment k strictly prefers taking the safe action rather than the risky action. Either statement contradicts
the de…nition of threshold signals.

35

.38 Since the argument in both cases is analogous we consider only the case when lim x !1 x ( l ;

x) <

.
If lim x !1 x ( l ;

x) <

then

lim L

x !1

; x ( l;

x)

= 1 = lim L
x !1

; x ( k;

Therefore, the indi¤erence condition of a player with sentiment

T =

N
X

g ( m)

m=1

x ( k) 1

z

k + lim

x !1

1

Now, let n
is for all

Z1

h

1=2
x (x

x)

k converges to

( m;

x)

k denote the lowest sentiment such that lim x !1 [x ( k ;

m <

x ( k;

x)

i
))
x

x ( n;

(z) dz

x )]

0, that

i

(z) dz

n we have

lim [x ( k ;

x !1

x)

x ( n;

x )] > 0

Then
T

=

g ( m)

Z1

x ( k) 1

z

k + lim

1=2
x (x

( m;

x)

x ( k;

x ))

N
X

g ( m)

Z1

h

x ( k) 1

z

k+

lim

1=2
x (x

( m;

x)

x ( k;

x ))

i

(z) dz

N
X

g ( m)

Z1

h

x ( k ) (z) dz

N
X

g ( m)

Z1

x ( l ) (z) dz

N
X

g ( m)

Z1

x ( l) 1

z

l+

lim

1=2
x (x

( m;

x)

x ( k;

x ))

i

(z) dz

N
X

g ( m)

Z1

h

x ( l) 1

z

l + lim

h

1=2
x (x

( m;

x)

x ( k;

i
))
x

(z) dz = T

N
X

m=1

=

1

m=n

1

m=n

=

1

m=n

m=1

x !1

1

m=n

<

x !1

1

1

x !1

x !1

where the strict inequality follows from the assumption that x ( l ) > x ( k ), and the …fth line
38

In the limit as x ! 1 a player will never set a threshold x ( k ) strictly above since in this case there
exists " > 0 such that x ( k ) " > , and using this lower threshold leads to a strictly higher payo¤ for all
2 [x ( k ) "; x ( k )).

36

follows from observation that
lim x ( m ;

x !1

x)

lim x ( k ;

x !1

x)

0 then

lim x ( m ;

x)

x !1

lim x ( l ;

x) < 0

x !1

Thus, we arrived at a contradiction.
(Part 2) As before, we need to di¤erentiate between the case where (1) lim x !1 x ( l ;
and (2) lim x !1 x ( l ;

x) =

x) <

. Since the arguments in both cases are similar, we again only

consider here the …rst case.
We know that lim x !1 x ( l ;

x ) = lim x !1 x

( l;

x ) for all l; k 2 f1; :::; N g.

Denote this

limit by x . Now, suppose that there exist k and l such that
lim

x !1

h

1=2
x (x

( k;

x)

i

x ( l;

x ))

2 f 1; +1g

Without loss of generality, assume that l < k. Then we know that for a su¢ ciently high
x ( k;

x) < x

( l;

x ). Therefore

lim

x !1

So suppose that lim x !1
for all m 6= l; k we have
lim

x !1

h

x we have

1=2
x (x

h

( k;

h

1=2
x (x

( k;

1=2
x (x

( k;

x)

x ( m;

x)

x)

x ( l;

x ( l;

i
))
=
x

i
))
x

lim

x !1

h

i

x ))

<1

1. Since x ( k ;

1=2
x (x

( l;

x)

x) < x

x ( m;

( l;

x)

i
))
x

and
lim

x !1

h

1=2
x (x

( k;

x)

x ( k;

i
h
1=2
))
=
0
=
lim
x
x (x ( l ;
x !1

x)

x ( k l;

i
))
x

But then, in the limit we have

T

=

N
X
N
X

g ( m)

Z1

x

1

z

k

g ( m)

Z1

x

1

z

k

m=1

<

m=1

1

1

which is a contradiction. Thus, lim x !1

h

lim

h

1=2
x (x

( m)

i
x ( k ))

(z) dz

T

lim

h

1=2
x (x

( m)

i
x ( l ))

(z) dz

T =T

x ( l;

i
))
>
x

x !1

x !1

1=2
x (x

( k;

x)

With the above result we can now compute the limit of fx ( k )gN
k=1 as

37

1.

x ! 0.

Lemma 5 Let x be the limit of lim x !1 x ( k ;
x

1

=

N
P

=

1

if

g ( m)

pm
2

m=1

x

x ) = x . Then,

N
P

g ( m)

m=1

otherwise

pm
2

Proof. Suppose that
1
N
P

g ( m)

pm
2

m=1

De…ne
(k; 1)
where the observation that
for a player with sentiment

x

N
X

(1; k) =

x

N
X

1=2
x [x

( k)

x ( 1 )] 2 R

(k; 1) 2 R follows from Claim 4. As

x ! 1 the indi¤erence condition

m , m 2 f1; :::; N g converges to

Z1

g ( m)

m=1

Note that

lim

x !1

[1

( z

(m; 1)

k

(1; k))] (z) dz = 0

1

(k; 1), and therefore the indi¤erence condition is given by
Z1

[1

N
X

g ( m)

g ( m)

m=1

( z

(m; 1) + (k; 1))] (z) dz

k

T =0

1

or
x

k+

m=1

Thus, we arrive at the following system of N

x

N
X

g ( m)

1+

m=1

x

N
X

m=1

g ( m)

(m; 1) + (k; 1)
p
2

T =0

1 unknowns (the unknown being f (m; 1)gN
m=1 ):
(m; 1) + (1; 1)
p
2

T =0

..
.
N +

(m; 1) + (N; 1)
p
2

T =0

where the …rst equation corresponds to the indi¤erence condition of a player with sentiment

1 in

the limit, the second equation corresponds to the indi¤erence condition of a player with sentiment

38

2 and so on. By inspection, one can verify that the solution to this equation is

(m; 1) =

1 , for all m 2 f1; :::; N g

m

Moreover, this is a unique solution. To see this, note that equations 2 to N above are a set of N
1 unknowns.39

non-linear equations in N

1

It is straightforward to show that the Jacobian of this

system is diagonally dominant which, by Lemma 3 implies that this system has a unique solution.
It follows that
T

x =

N
P

g ( m)

pm
2

m=1

If T >

N
P

g ( m)

m=

p

2 then x converges to . We prove this by contradiction. Suppose

m=1

that x ( k )’s do not converge to . Since we know that lim x !1 x ( k ) 2 T;
this case we must have lim x !1 x ( k ) <

and so
xx

L = lim

( x+

x

We perform the substitution z =
a player with sentiment
N
X

h

xx

( k )+
x+
1=2

i

( k )+
x+

=1

)

=( x +

) 1=2 in the indi¤erence equation of

k , k 2 f1; :::; N g and take the limit as

g ( m)

m=1

Z1

x [1

it follows that in

( z

(m; 1)

k

x ! 1 to obtain

(1; k))] (z) dz = 0,

1

where
(k; l) = lim

x !1

and so

(k; l) =

(k; 1)

(1; l) =

1=2
x [x

( k)

x ( l )] 2 R

(k; 1) + (l; 1). Evaluating the resulting integrals, we arrive

at the system of equations:

x

N
X

g ( m)

1+

m=1

x

N
X

g ( m)

m=1
39

There are only N
(m; l).

1 independent constants

(m; 1) + (1; 1)
p
2

T =0

..
.
N +

(m; 1) + (N; 1)
p
2

(k; l) since

39

(k; k) = 0,

T =0

(k; l) =

(l; k), and

(k; l) =

( ; m) +

But we showed above that this system has a unique solution
x =

T
N
P

g ( m)

m=1

>
pm
2

by assumption. This is a contradiction since x was supposed to be smaller than . It follows that
x = .
The argument presented above establishes that any convergent sequence x ( k ; nx ) ! x ; where
p
p
x = T= N
if T = N
< and x = otherwise. But
m= 2
m= 2
m=1 g ( m )
m=1 g ( m )
then from the Lemma it follows that x ( k ;
2.
B.2.2

x ) ! x . Thus, we established Part (2) of Proposition

Uniqueness of equilibrium away from the limit

In this section we prove part 1 of Proposition 2, that is we show that there exists
all

x >

x such that for

x the model with sentiments has a unique equilibrium.

Lemma 6 There exists

x such that if

x >

x then the model has unique equilibrium in monotone

strategies.
Proof. To establish this result it is enough to show that for a su¢ ciently high
@Vk
@x ( k )

X
l6=k

@Vl
> 0 for all k 2 f1; :::; N g ,
@x ( k )

40

x

which implies that the Jacobian of the mapping V is diagonally dominant. Using the expressions
for the derivatives reported above we have
X

@Vk
@x ( k )
=

N
X

l6=k

x+

l=1

+

x+

l=1

X

x+

g ( l)

l6=k

Z

Z

x ( l)
x

Z

x

g ( l)

g ( k)

Z "
1

x

g ( l)

N
X

@Vl
@x ( k )

k

1=2

x ( l)

1=2
x

x

x

k

1=2

x ( l)

1=2
x

k

1=2

x ( l)

1=2
x

!#

x

k

1=2

!

!

xx

( x+

!

1=2

)

( x+
xx

)

( x+
xx

( x+

)1=2

( x+
xx

1=2

( x+

)

( x+

!

( k )+
x+
1=2

!

)

1=2

( x+

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

( k )+
x+
1=2

!

d

( k )+
x+
1=2

!

d

)

!

d

d

d

+Positive Terms
where

P

@Vl
@x ( k )

l6=k

X

in the above expression is captured by

g ( l)

l6=k

Z

x ( l)

1=2
x

x

k

1=2

!

xx

1=2

( x+

)

( x+

)

We focus on the …rst four terms in the above derivative and notice that they simplify to
N
X

g ( l)

l=1

N
X
l=1

x
x+

g ( l)

x+

Z "
Z

x ( k)

1

x

1=2
x

k

1=2

!#

x ( l)
x

k

1=2

!

xx

( x+

xx

z=

( x+

( x+

41

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

)

( x+
xx

To show that the above term is strictly positive for a high
make the substitution

1=2

)1=2

( x+

( k )+
x+
1=2

!

d

( k )+
x+
1=2

!

d

)

)

x , in each of the above integrals we

Then, the above integrals become
N
X

L( ; k )2

Z

x

g ( l)

x+

l=1

L( ; k )

N
X

g ( l)
0
@

1=2
x

41

L( ; k )( "

Z

x+

l=1

0

L( ; k )
( x+

)

1=2

x

where
;

Since lim x ( k )

k

=

lim 4

x !1

N
X

@Vk
@x ( k )

g ( l)

l=1

ZL

X
l6=k

lim

x !1

x+

> 0

l=1

#

( k) +
x+

1

13

A5 (z) dz

)

A (z) dz

and L ( ;

k) !

k) =

( x+

( k )+
x+
1=2

)

1 as

x ! 1 and that lim x !1 L

h

( l)

;

k

>

1.

3

z

k + lim

g ( l)

ZL

x !1

1

N
X

k

1=2

xx

@Vl 5
@x ( k )

1

+

k

)

we have L ( ;

)

xx

( k )+
x+

( k )+
x+
1=2

( x+

Therefore,
2

( x+

1=2

xx

L

)1=2

( x+

( k )+
x+

1=2

x

z

xx

z

x ( k)

@

xx

z

x ( k)

1=2
x (x

1=2
x

x

z

x , call it

(z) dz

h

( l)

k + lim

x !1

1

It follows that there exists a large enough

i
x ( k ))
1=2
x (x

x;k , such that if

x >

i
x ( k ))

(z)

x;k then the k-th row

of the Jacobian of mapping V is dominated by its diagonal entry. De…ne
x =

Then for all

x

max

k2f1;:::;N g

x;k

x the Jacobian of mapping V is diagonally dominant, which, by Lemma 3,

establishes the claim.

42

C

Quantal Response Equilibrium

C.1

De…nition of Equilibrium

We …rst de…ne a logit quantal response equilibrium (henceforth, logit QRE) in our model following
closely McKelvey and Palfrey (1995). Let

i : R ! [0; 1], i = 1; 2, be a mapping that assigns to

each signal xi a probability that player i takes action A. Let UHi be the expected utility to player
i from taking action H 2 fA; Bg. In particular,
UAi (xi ;

j) =

Z 1Z 1
1

j (xj ) g (xj j ) f ( jxi ) dxj d

1

+

Z 1

1

where g (xj j ) is the conditional pdf of player j’s signal xj given
pdf of

T;

and f ( jxi ) is the conditional

given player i’s signal, xi , and

UBi (xi ;

f ( jxi ) d

j) = 0

The logistic quantal response function of player i to

j is then a mapping

(;

j ) : R ! [0; 1] that

assigns to each player i’s signal xi a probability with which player i plays action A according to
the quantal function
(xi ;

j) =

e UAi (xi ; j )
e UAi (xi ; j ) + e UBi (xi ; j )

(7)

The parameter , as in McKelvey and Palfrey (1995), measures how likely it is that players choose
actions that have a higher expected payo¤. Note that

= 0 corresponds to random behavior while

! 1 corresponds the situation where players always choose the optimal action (and hence play

according to a Nash equilibrium).

Having introduced the necessary notation we now de…ne a logit QRE.
De…nition 7 Given
functions f 1 ;

, a logit quantal response equilibrium is a tuple of quantal best-response

2 g such that for each i = 1; 2 and j 6= i we have
i (xi ) =

where

(xi ;

C.2

Estimation

xi ;

j

j ) is de…ned in (7). The logit QRE is symmetric if

1 (x) =

2 (x) for each x 2 R.

To see whether our empirical results can be explained by logit QRE we compute numerically the
symmetric logit equilibrium f 1 ;

2 g for di¤erent values of

. Then, for each

we feed into

the

actual signal realizations from the experiment to simulate the responses of subjects if they where

43

playing according to a logit QRE with parameter . Thus, our simulation assigns to each observed
signal xi in the experiment an a simulated action (that is, the action chosen according to f 1 ;

D

2 g).

Analogy-Based Expectation Equilibria

In this section, we brie‡y discuss the analogy-based expectation equilibrium (ABEE). For a more
detailed discussion, see Koessler and Jehiel (2008).

D.1

Coarsest analogy partition

Koessler and Jehiel (2008) de…ne the coarsest partition as follows. They assume that players bundle
all states together and hence they best respond to the average behavior of their opponent. Let Pj
denote the actual ex-ante probability of player j choosing A given player j’s strategy. Thus, player
i will choose A if and only if
E [ jxi ] Pj

T

0

From the above equation, it is immediate that players will follow threshold strategies. Therefore,
the ABEE is given by the following two equations:
E

jx1 ; 2

;

P2 + E

jx1 ;

T

= 0

(8)

E

jx2 ; 2

;

P1 + E

jx2 ;

T

= 0;

(9)

d ; i = 1; 2; j 6= i

(10)

where
Pi =

Z +1
1

1

xj
x

The thresholds reported in Table 7 in the paper are computed by solving Equation (8) for each
x 2 f1; 10; 20g.

D.2

Finer Partitions

Koessler and Jehiel (2008) develop the ABEE concept for games with a …nite number of states.
However, in a model with in…nite many states such as ours there exists an uncountable number of
possible analogy partitions and it is unclear how to pick one. Below, we propose a simple sequence
of subsequent partition re…nements that we believe are intuitive partition choices.
In what follows, we consider a sequence of partitions fPk g1
k=0 , where P0 denotes the coarsest

partition (as described above), and each partition Pk is a re…nement of partition Pk 1 . We de…ne
fPk g1
k=0 iteratively in the following way. First, we assume that P1 = ( 1; ) ;
44

;

;

;1

.

Next, we assume that each Pk re…nes Pk 1 by splitting each analogy bin of partition Pk 1 that
belongs to

;

into two bins of equal length. That is

P2 =

( 1; ) ;

;

+
2

P3 =

( 1; ) ;

;

3
1
+
4
4

+
;
2

;
;

;1

3
1
+
+ ;
4
4
2

+ 1
3
;
+
2
4
4

;

1
3
+ ;
4
4

;

;1

..
.
The appeal of the above family of partitions is that P1 corresponds to the partition of the statespace according to the number of players that take action A that are required to make action A
successful and each subsequent analogy-partition is a re…nement of the previous partition.
50

high precision
medium precision
low precision

40
30
20
10
2

4

6

8

Figure 11: Implied ABEE thresholds, by precision
Figure 11 depicts the implied ABEE threshold for high precision (solid line), medium precision
(dashed line), and low precision(dashed-dotted line).40 We see that as in our baseline model, …xing
an analogy partition, the thresholds are increasing in precision. Moreover, for each partition Pk ,
the threshold for low precision is around 18. Both observations are at odds with the data. Thus,
we conclude that ABEE are unlikely to explain our empirical …ndings.

45

40

40

40

30

30

30

20

20

10

10
1

5

10

15

20

20

level-k threshold
theoretical threshold
estimated threhold

1

High precision

5

10

15

10
20

1

5

Medium Precision

10

15

20

Low Precision

Figure 12: Comparison of level-k threshold (as level of reasoning k varies) when level-0 is always
assumed to take the risky action with the theoretical and estimated thresholds
100

100

40
80

80

30
60

60

20

level-k threshold
theoretical threshold
estimated threhold

40

10

20
1

5

10

15

20

High precision

1

5

10

15

Medium Precision

40
20

20

1

5

10

15

20

Low Precision

Figure 13: Comparison of level-k threshold (as level of reasoning k varies) when level-0 is always
assumed to take the safe action with the theoretical and estimated thresholds

E

Level-k Model

Figure 12 illustrates that when level-0 players are assumed to always take a risky action then, for
the case of medium and low precision, the model predicts thresholds which are lower than those
observed in our experiment, regardless of the players’depth of reasoning. On the other hand, when
level-0 players are assumed to always choose the safe action (Figure 13) then the implied threshold
for high precision is much higher than that observed in the data, regardless of the players’depth
of reasoning.
40

In general, there are multiple equilibrium thresholds when information is precise and the partition is coarse,
but …ner than the coarsest partition. In our case, for high precision there are multiple equilibrium thresholds when
players use partitions P1 and P2 ; while for medium precision there are multiple equilibrium thresholds when players
use partition P1 . In these cases we consider the ABEE threshold which is always the closest to the one observed in
the data.

46

F

Standard global game with risk aversion

In this section we consider our baseline model (as described in Section 2.2), but assume that players
have utility u (w) = w = , where w is the payo¤ they earn in a given round and
is the players’coe¢ cient of relative risk aversion.

2 R. Here, 1

Let E denote the endowment of a player (recall that in the experiment subjects start with
a positive endowment). If action A is successful then the payo¤ is
unsuccessful, then the payo¤ is E
Z
+
=

E

( +E
Z

(E

T)
T)

+E

T . If action A is

T . Thus, the equilibrium thresholds solve

Pr (xj

x j ) f ( jx ) d +

Pr (xj < x j ) f ( jx ) d +

Z

Z 1

( +E

(E

T)

1

T)

f ( jx ) d

f ( jx ) d

The …rst two terms on the LHS of the above equation correspond to the case where action A is
successful, in which case player i earns + E

T if he chooses action A. The last two terms on the

LHS correspond to the case when action A is unsuccessful, in which case player i receives payo¤
E

T if he chooses action A. The payo¤ from choosing action B is E.
We then use the above equation to compute the coe¢ cient of relative risk aversion needed to

rationalize the thresholds observed in the data. As reported in the paper (Table 8) in order to
rationalize our …ndings, subjects would have to be risk-loving when information is precise and risk
averse when information is imprecise, which is hard to justify.

47

References
[1] Avoyan, A (2018). Communication in Global Games: Theory and Experiment. Working paper.
[2] Alaoui, L., and Penta, A. (2015). Endogenous depth of reasoning. Review of Economic Studies,
83(4), 1297-1333.
[3] Angeletos, G. M., and Lian, C. (2016). Incomplete information in macroeconomics: Accommodating frictions in coordination. Handbook of Macroeconomics, 2, 1065-1240.
[4] Angeletos, G. M. and La’O, J. (2013). Sentiments. Econometrica, 81(2), 739-780.
[5] Angeletos, G. M., and Pavan, A. (2007). E¢ cient use of information and social value of information. Econometrica, 75(4), 1103-1142.
[6] Bannier, C. E., and Heinemann, F. (2005). Optimal transparency and risk-taking to avoid
currency crises. Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics, 161(3), 374-391.
[7] Baeriswyl, R., and Cornand, C. (2014). Reducing overreaction to central banks’ disclosures:
Theory and experiment. Journal of the European Economic Association, 12(4), 1087-1126.
[8] Benhabib, J. , P. Wang, and Y. Wen (2015). Sentiments and aggregate demand ‡uctuations.
Econometrica, 83(2), 549-585.
[9] Bloom, N. (2009). The impact of uncertainty shocks. Econometrica, 77(3), 623-685.
[10] Brandenburger, A. (1996). Strategic and Structural Uncertainty in Games. In R. Zeckhauser,
R. Keeney and J. Sibenius (eds.) Wise Choices: Games, Decisions, and Negotiations (Boston:
Harvard Business School Press), 221–232.
[11] Cabrales, A., Nagel, R., and Armenter, R. (2007). Equilibrium selection through incomplete
information in coordination games: an experimental study. Experimental Economics, 10(3),
221-234.
[12] Camerer, C., and Lovallo, D. (1999). Overcon…dence and excess entry: An experimental approach. American Economic Review, 89(1), 306-318.
[13] Camerer, C. F. (2003). Behavioral Game Theory: Experiments in Strategic Interaction. Princeton University Press.

48

[14] Carlsson, H. and Van Damme, E., 1993. Global games and equilibrium selection. Econometrica
61(5), 989-1018.
[15] Charness, G., Feri, F., Meléndez-Jiménez, M. A., and Sutter, M. (2014). Experimental games
on networks: Underpinnings of behavior and equilibrium selection. Econometrica, 82(5), 16151670.
[16] Colombo, L., Femminis, G., and Pavan, A. (2014). Information acquisition and welfare. The
Review of Economic Studies, 81(4), 1438-1483.
[17] Cooper, R. W., DeJong, D. V., Forsythe, R., and Ross, T. W. (1990). Selection criteria in
coordination games: Some experimental results. American Economic Review, 80(1), 218-233.
[18] Cooper, R., DeJong, D. V., Forsythe, R., and Ross, T. W. (1992). Communication in coordination games. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 107(2), 739-771.
[19] Cornand, C., and Heinemann, F. (2014). Measuring agents’ reaction to private and public
information in games with strategic complementarities. Experimental Economics, 17(1), 6177.
[20] Costa-Gomes, M. A., and Crawford, V. P. (2006). Cognition and behavior in two-person guessing games: An experimental study. American Economic Review, 96(5), 1737-1768.
[21] Croson, R. T. (2000). Thinking like a game theorist: factors a¤ecting the frequency of equilibrium play. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 41(3), 299-314.
[22] Crawford, V., & Broseta, B. (1998). What price coordination? The e¢ ciency-enhancing e¤ect
of auctioning the right to play. American Economic Review, 198-225.
[23] Darai, D., Kogan, S., Kwasnica, A., and Weber, R. (2017) “Aggregate Sentiment and Investment: An Experimental Study” mimeo.
[24] Du¤y, J., and Ochs, J. (2012). Equilibrium selection in static and dynamic entry games. Games
and Economic Behavior, 76(1), 97-116.
[25] Diamond, D. W. and Dybvig, P. H. (1983). Bank runs, deposit insurance, and liquidity. Journal
of Political Economy, 91 (3): 401–419.
[26] Eyster, E., and Rabin, M. (2005). Cursed equilibrium. Econometrica, 73(5), 1623-1672.
[27] Fischbacher, U. (2007). z-Tree: Zurich toolbox for ready-made economic experiments. Experimental Economics, 10(2), 171-178.

49

[28] Frankel, D. M., Morris, S., and Pauzner, A. (2003). Equilibrium selection in global games with
strategic complementarities. Journal of Economic Theory, 108(1), 1-44.
[29] Gächter, S., and Renner, E. (2010). The e¤ects of (incentivized) belief elicitation in public
goods experiments. Experimental Economics, 13(3), 364-377.
[30] Goldstein, I., and Pauzner, A. (2005). Demand–deposit contracts and the probability of bank
runs. Journal of Finance, 60(3), 1293-1327.
[31] García, D., Sangiorgi, F., and Urošević, B. (2007). Overcon…dence and market e¢ ciency with
heterogeneous agents. Economic Theory, 30(2), 313-336.
[32] Goeree, J., Holt, C., and Palfrey, T. (2016). Quantal Response Equilibrium: A Stochastic
Theory of Games. Princeton University Press.
[33] Harsanyi, J. and R. Selten (1988). “A General Theory of Equilibrium Selection in Games,”
The MIT Press.
[34] Heinemann, F. and G. Illing (2002). Speculative attacks: unique equilibrium and transparency.
Journal of International Economics, 58(2): 429-450.
[35] Heinemann, F., Nagel, R., and Ockenfels, P. (2004). The theory of global games on test: experimental analysis of coordination games with public and private information. Econometrica,
72(5), 1583-1599.
[36] Heinemann, F., Nagel, R., and Ockenfels, P. (2009). Measuring strategic uncertainty in coordination games. Review of Economic Studies, 76(1), 181-221.
[37] Hellwig, C. (2002). Public information, private information, and the multiplicity of equilibria
in coordination games. Journal of Economic Theory, 107(2), 191-222.
[38] Hellwig, C., and Veldkamp, L. (2009). Knowing what others know: Coordination motives in
information acquisition. Review of Economic Studies, 76(1), 223-251.
[39] Jehiel, P., 2005. Analogy-based expectation equilibrium. Journal of Economic Theory, 123(2):
81-104.
[40] Jehiel, P., and Koessler, F. (2008). Revisiting games of incomplete information with analogybased expectations. Games and Economic Behavior, 62(2), 533-557.
[41] Iachan, F. and P. Nenov (2015). Information quality and crises in regime-change games. Journal
of Economic Theory, 158: 739-768.

50

[42] Izmalkov, S. and Yildiz, M. (2010). Investor sentiments. American Economic Journal: Microeconomics, 2(1): 21-38.
[43] Kneeland, T. (2016). Coordination under limited depth of reasoning. Games and Economic
Behavior, 96, 49-64.
[44] McKelvey, R. D., and Palfrey, T. R. (1995). Quantal response equilibria for normal form games.
Games and Economic Behavior, 10(1), 6-38.
[45] Moore, D. and Cain, D. (2007). Overcon…dence and undercon…dence: When and why people underestimate (and overestimate) the competition. Organizational Behavior and Human
Decision Processes, 103: 197-213.
[46] Morris, S., and Shin, H. S. (1998). Unique equilibrium in a model of self-ful…lling currency
attacks. American Economic Review, 88(3), 587-597.
[47] Morris, S., and Shin, H. S. (2003). Global games: Theory and applications. In Advances in
Economics and Econometrics: Theory and applications, Eight World Congress, Cambridge
University Press.
[48] Nagel, R. (1995). Unraveling in guessing games: An experimental study. American Economic
Review, 85(5), 1313-1326.
[49] Parthasarathy, T. (1983). On global univalence theorems. Springer.
[50] Pavan, A. (2014). Attention, coordination and bounded recall. Working paper.
[51] Rutström, E. E., and Wilcox, N. T. (2009). Stated beliefs versus inferred beliefs: A methodological inquiry and experimental test. Games and Economic Behavior, 67(2), 616-632.
[52] Schotter, A., and Trevino, I. (2015). Belief elicitation in the laboratory. Annual Review of
Economics, 6(1), 103-128.
[53] Straub, P. G. (1995). Risk dominance and coordination failures in static games. The Quarterly
Review of Economics and Finance, 35(4), 339-363.
[54] Strzalecki, T. (2014). Depth of reasoning and higher order beliefs. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 108, 108-122.
[55] Szkup, M., and Trevino, I. (2015). Information acquisition in global games of regime change.
Journal of Economic Theory, 160, 387-428.

51

[56] Szkup, M., and Trevino, I. (2019). Information Acquisition and Coordination in Regime
Change games: Theory and Experiments. Working paper.
[57] Van Huyck, J. B., Battalio, R. C., and Beil, R. O. (1990). Tacit coordination games, strategic
uncertainty, and coordination failure. American Economic Review, 80(1), 234-248.
[58] Van Huyck, J. B., Battalio, R. C., and Beil, R. O. (1991). Strategic uncertainty, equilibrium
selection, and coordination failure in average opinion games. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 106(3), 885-910.
[59] Veldkamp, L. (2011). Information choice in macroeconomics and …nance. Princeton University
Press.
[60] Vives, X. (2010) Information and learning in markets: the impact of market microstructure.
Princeton University Press.
[61] Weinstein, N. D. (1980). Unrealistic optimism about future life events. Journal of Personality
and Social Psychology, 39(5), 806.
[62] Yang, M. (2015). Coordination with ‡exible information acquisition. Journal of Economic
Theory, 158, 721-738.

52

