  To Repress or To Co-opt? Authoritarian Control in
           the Age of Digital Surveillance⇤
                                                     Xu Xu†

               (Forthcoming at the American Journal of Political Science)
                                                    Abstract

       This paper studies the consequences of digital surveillance in dictatorships. I first
       develop an informational theory of repression and co-optation. I argue that digital
       surveillance resolves dictators’ information problem of not knowing individual citi-
       zens’ true anti-regime sentiments. By identifying radical opponents, digital surveil-
       lance enables dictators to substitute targeted repression for non-exclusive co-optation
       to forestall coordinated uprisings. My theory implies that as digital surveillance tech-
       nologies advance, we should observe a rise in targeted repression and a decline in uni-
       versal redistribution. Using a difference-in-differences design that exploits temporal
       variation in digital surveillance systems among Chinese counties, I find that surveil-
       lance increases local governments’ public security expenditure and arrests of political
       activists but decreases public goods provision. My theory and evidence suggest that
       improvements in governments’ information make citizens worse off in dictatorships.

       Keywords:: digital surveillance; dictatorship; China; information; repression; co-
       optation




   ⇤
      For helpful comments, I would like to thank Xun Cao, Martin Dimitrov, Christopher Fariss, Matt Golder, Sheena
Greitens, Erin Hartman, Ji Yeon Hong, John Huber, Luke Keele, Hanzhang Liu, Zhaotian Luo, Xiao Ma, Melanie
Manion, Daniel Mattingly, Ricardo Piqué, Adam Przeworski, Suzanne Scoggins, David Siegel, Wenfang Tang, Rory
Truex, Joseph Wright, Tianyang Xi, Yiqing Xu, Yao-Yuan Yeh, Changdong Zhang, Boliang Zhu; participants at the
APSA annual meeting, the MPSA conference, the annual meeting of the Society for Political Methodology, the Quan-
titative China Studies Seminar at New York University, the New Faces in China Studies conference at Duke University,
and department seminars at Penn State. Three anonymous referees and Editors Sarah Brooks, Kathleen Dolan, Jennifer
L. Lawless, Jan Leighley, and Graeme Robertson provided constructive criticisms that greatly improved the paper. Fi-
nally, I would like to thank Xin Jin for her helpful comments and unwavering support. All remaining errors are my
own. Online Appendix and replication materials are available at https://xu-xu.net/research.html
    †
      Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Political Science, Penn State University. xux112@psu.edu, https://xu-xu.net.
210 Pond Lab, University Park, PA 16802
1        Introduction
        In early June 2013, former NSA contractor Edward Snowden revealed top-secret documents
concerning the U.S. government’s surveillance operations. In Western democracies, the Snowden
leaks fueled intense controversy among the public and caused a significant retreat in government
surveillance.1 However, in dictatorships where the governments pay less heed to public opinion,
courts, and civil rights, digital surveillance has steadily increased in the past decade. Many au-
thoritarian countries have purchased, developed, or enhanced surveillance tools in recent years
(Valentino-DeVries, Vo and Yadron 2015). More importantly, unlike U.S. surveillance that mainly
focuses on international communications (Gellman and Poitras 2013), government surveillance in
authoritarian regimes primarily targets domestic activity. Why are authoritarian governments so
enthusiastic about domestic surveillance? How does digital surveillance influence government be-
havior and citizen well-being? The rapid rise in digital surveillance, as I show, has implications
for our understanding of how dictatorships use repression and co-optation to address the risk of
popular uprisings and to enhance regime stability.
        Dictators control their populace through repression and co-optation, whereby citizens bene-
fit from privileges doled by the regime but also are subject to government suppression and even
violence (Svolik 2012). Dictators’ strategies to mitigate the risk of popular revolt and maintain
regime stability must weigh the costs and benefits of both tools. Though a large body of literature
emphasizes dictators’ repression-cooptation trade-off (e.g., Wintrobe 2000; Frantz and Kendall-
Taylor 2014), few studies have addressed how changes in the informational environment shapes
this tradeoff.2 The literature on information in authoritarian regimes largely focus on the horizontal
information problem faced by dissenting citizens who do not know each other’s anti-regime sen-
timent, which prevents them from coordinating uprisings successfully (e.g., Kuran 1991; Edmond
2013). In such settings, communication technologies facilitate horizontal information exchanges,
    1
      For example, the U.S. Congress passed the USA Freedom Act on June 2, 2015, which significantly curtailed the
government’s sweeping surveillance of phone calls and data gathering; on May 25, 2018, the European Union passed
the strictest privacy law in EU history – the General Data Protect Regulation.
    2
      See Blaydes (2018, Chapter 2) for a recent exception.


                                                        1
enabling better coordination among citizens (e.g., Edmond 2013). A few recent studies argue that
dictators allow vertical information flows through media or multiparty elections to address social
grievances and to monitor local officials (Huang, Boranbay-Akan and Huang 2019; Lorentzen
2014; Miller 2015). However, an important question in vertical information exchange remains
unexplored: dictators do not have refined information on each citizen’s anti-regime sentiment and
thus cannot optimally allocate resources between repression and co-optation to deter collective
action. This article argues that increasing digital surveillance shapes the repression-cooptation
trade-off in substantively important ways by mitigating this vertical information problem, thereby
allowing authoritarian governments to substitute targeted, preventive repression for more costly
universal co-optation.
       All dictators face threats from citizens excluded from the power, especially organized opposi-
tion groups (Svolik 2012). Even if disenfranchised citizens cannot threaten regime survival, dic-
tators still have an incentive to prevent everyday protests and maintain social order for economic
growth so that they can extract more rents from the economy (Pan 2015). Radical opponents –
citizens with stronger anti-regime sentiments – pose greater threats to social order than moderate
ones because they have a stronger tendency to protest (Lust-Okar 2005) and they are crucial to
forming a critical mass necessary for anti-regime mobilization (Oliver and Marwell 1988). In sta-
ble dictatorships, large-scale, indiscriminate repression is rare and usually not a preferable option
to dissuade mass mobilization in the first place. Ideally, dictators could selectively repress radicals
to prevent mass mobilization by addressing threats when the opposition is still organizing collec-
tive action (Ritter and Conrad 2016). However, dictators are inherently uninformed. In contrast
to democratic leaders, who obtain information about citizens from free speech, critical media, and
multiparty elections, dictators face the difficulty of obtaining accurate information about citizens
even if they hold elections because citizens have an incentive to misrepresent their anti-regime
sentiments when faced with the prospect of repression (Kuran 1991).3 This authoritarian informa-
   3
     Miller (2015), among others, argue that multi-party elections in dictatorships allow citizens to signal dissatisfac-
tion with the regime. But this type of information is much blunter than information collected in a society with political
freedom. Further, many authoritarian regimes, such as China, Saudi Arabia, and North Korea, do not have multi-party
elections.


                                                           2
tion problem undermines dictators’ ability to identify radicals for targeted repression. As a result,
dictators resort to expensive co-optation policies such as universal welfare provision to prevent
moderates from coordinating with radicals to form an organized opposition.
       The development of information and communications technology (ICT), especially surveil-
lance technology, alleviates the vertical information problem in dictatorships. ICT facilitates citi-
zens’ digital communication, leaving substantial information in digital formats for governments to
access and analyze. For example, the Iranian and Syrian regimes employ an array of digital surveil-
lance tools to spy on citizens, especially those they deem threatening to regime survival (Gunitsky
2015; Gohdes 2014). Chinese government agencies also invest in digital tools to track and analyze
online activities for containing threats before they spread (Qin, Strömberg and Wu 2017). More-
over, recent technology advancements in high-resolution cameras, facial recognition, and big data
processing empower governments to monitor citizens and identify dissidents in a timely manner
(Liu and Wang 2017). When digital surveillance enables dictators to identify radical opponents,
they substitute less expensive targeted repression for non-exclusive co-optation to lower regime
survival cost. Thus, as digital surveillance technologies advance, we should observe increased
selective repression but less non-exclusive co-optation.
       This paper focuses on surveillance technology rather than ICT penetration,4 using China as
a testing ground. In 1998, the Ministry of Public Security in China proposed the Golden Shield
Project – a digital surveillance system (Walton 2001) – to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of the police. In 2001, the central government approved and started to fund the project, which was
then implemented through several phases. The first phase of the project mainly built population
databases, ID tracking systems, and Internet surveillance tools. The second phase of the project
– the 3111 Initiative – focused on street surveillance camera systems. Recent advancements on
this project started to integrate facial recognition, big data, and artificial intelligence technologies
into the system. Due to the central ministry’s phase-in strategy in experimenting this project, the
   4
    This paper considers increases in digital surveillance for a given level of Internet penetration. See Shapiro and
Siegel (2015) for an example of how changes in ICT access alter insurgent mobilization and government surveillance
together.



                                                         3
timing of implementation varied across counties. This variation in the timing allows comparison
of counties with and without completed Golden Shield systems, using difference-in-differences
(DiD) designs.
   Using unique archival data on Chinese county government expenditures and county-level po-
litical prisoners, I find that the implementation of the Golden Shield project increases local gov-
ernments’ targeted repression, as measured by local public security expenditure and the number of
political prisoners. I also find that the Golden Shield project has an negative impact on government
welfare provision, agriculture investments, and provision of other public goods. These findings are
consistent with the theoretical predictions that governments substitute preventive, targeted repres-
sion for non-exclusive co-optation. The results are robust to lagged dependent variable models that
address endogeneity problem between the local implementation of the Golden Shield project and a
need for repression, as well as matching and trajectory balancing models that address time-variant
omitted variable biases.
   This paper directly contributes to a large body of literature on repression and co-optation in
dictatorships (e.g., Gandhi and Przeworski 2006; Davenport 2007), especially work that focuses
on the repression-cooptation trade-off. For example, Wintrobe (2000) presents a general theory of
dictatorships that hold power through a combination of repression and loyalty, a concept similar
to co-optation. Gershenson and Grossman (2001) analyze the changing mix of repression and
co-optation that Soviet elites used to retain power in response to exogenous changes in domestic
and international threats. Frantz and Kendall-Taylor (2014) develop a framework to show how
co-optation institutions influence different types of repressive strategies in dictatorships. My work
differs in two ways. First, I argue that though both repression and co-optation are important tools
of authoritarian control, the information requirements to employ common forms of repression
and co-optation differ – (targeted) repression requires more refined information. Second, I derive
informational conditions under which dictators substitute repression for co-optation.
   The theory and evidence in this paper address a common phenomenon regarding information
and repression in dictatorships. Sullivan (2016) examines police repression in Guatemala to show


                                                 4
that when the government accumulates sufficient information about organizers to repress mobi-
lization repeatedly, it can destroy challenger organizations by targeting the clandestine activities;
but when repression is directed at ongoing overt challenges, it motivates backlash that escalates
dissent. Dimitrov and Sassoon (2014) compare the operation of state security organs in Bulgaria
and Iraq and find that, in Bulgaria, massive repression was replaced by surveillance and targeted
repression because State Security was able to collect more fine-grained information on citizens.
Truex (2019) also shows that the Chinese government strategically anticipates events that create
focal points for protest coordination and then uses preventive repression to reduce dissent before-
hand. My paper contributes to this literature by highlighting the role of digital technologies in
selective repression and examining the trade-off between targeted repression and non-exclusive
co-optation when governments’ information improves.
   This paper also contributes to a growing body of literature on ICT and authoritarian survival.
Early studies posit that information technologies increase political freedom since they spread
democratic values and empower ordinary citizens to mobilize (e.g., Diamond 2010). However,
the Internet and ICT also provide authoritarian governments with new opportunities for political
control (e.g., Lynch 2011). Authoritarian governments use the Internet and ICT to censor and
repress online expressions (King, Pan and Roberts 2013), collect information about citizen prefer-
ences (Gunitsky 2015), monitor local politicians (Qin, Strömberg and Wu 2017), distract or guide
public opinion (King, Pan and Roberts 2017), and identify demonstrators and political opponents
(Gunitsky 2015; Lynch 2011). Recent scholarship also finds that many regimes, including Rus-
sia, Turkey, Egypt, Bahrain, and Syria, employ domestic digital surveillance to monitor citizens
(e.g., Gohdes 2014, p.91). This paper contributes to this literature by emphasizing the informa-
tion advantages of digital surveillance for dictators to better target repression and decrease costly
co-optation. As important, the theory and findings highlight that improvements in government in-
formation likely induce more repression instead of more policy concessions, as suggested in prior
literature (e.g., Gunitsky 2015; Miller 2015).




                                                 5
2        An Informational Theory of Repression and Co-optation in

         Stable Dictatorships
        Dictators rely on repression and co-optation to control citizens excluded from power (Svolik
2012). Repression subdues opposition to the ruling elite by force or violence (e.g., Davenport
2007). It is the defining characteristic of all states and is particularly salient in dictatorships.
Co-optation, on the other hand, provides benefits to a group of citizens in exchange for politi-
cal support (e.g., Gandhi and Przeworski 2006). While co-optation often involves using formal
institutions such as parties and legislatures to cement enduring commitments to provide benefits
to co-opted groups (Gandhi and Przeworski 2006), even dictatorships without strong formal in-
stitutions appease popular discontent with policy concessions or material handouts (Kitschelt and
Wilkinson 2007). To forestall dissent before coordinated protest manifests, dictators choose the
optimal levels of repression and co-option by weighing the costs and benefits of both.


2.1        The tradeoff between targeted repression and non-exclusive co-optation

        Repression and co-optation can be indiscriminate or targeted, but most of today’s stable, non-
rentier dictatorships seldom use indiscriminate repression or targeted co-optation as the main tools
for everyday social control.
        Large-scale, indiscriminate repression can incur international sanctions (Way and Levitsky
2006), lowers economic productivity (Nafziger and Auvinen 2002), causes mass backlash and
mobilization (Sullivan 2016), and potentially leads to elite splits (O’Donnell, Schmitter and White-
head 1986). For a regime on the brink of collapse, large-scale, indiscriminate repression may be a
drastic remedy but it is not a long-term solution for sustaining a stable dictatorship by dissuading
mass mobilization in the first place. Further, indiscriminate repression is less effective than tar-
geted repression in deterring participation,5 although it requires less information on citizens types
    5
      Siegel (2011b) demonstrates that targeted repression is more likely to deter mobilization than random repression.
Although social networks and the distribution of preferences influence the relative advantages of targeted repression,
it is still better at preventing mobilization than random repression for all levels of repression intensity, and especially
at low-intensity levels.


                                                            6
(Dimitrov and Sassoon 2014). Scholars find that targeted repression against individual opponents
and weakening challenger organizations is far more frequently employed as an everyday tool of
repression in dictatorships than indiscriminate repression (Sullivan 2016; Truex 2019; Ritter and
Conrad 2016).
       On the other hand, targeted co-option is expensive because its cost increases with the number of
individuals co-opted, whereas non-exclusive co-optation such as public goods provision is far more
efficient for buying mass support (see De Mesquita et al. [2003]’s selectorate theory building on
this intuition). In most of today’s stable dictatorships, citizens’ anti-regime mobilization is low and
regime stability high because the regimes provide the two most basic public goods all citizens value
– social stability and broad-based long-term economic growth, which increase citizen satisfaction
with the regime (Magaloni 2006). Therefore, dictators seldom use exclusive co-optation to buy
mass support, especially in non-rentier states where governments face resource constraints.
       Moreover, targeted co-optation of radicals is less efficient in deterring mobilization than tar-
geted repression because the cost to buy support from radicals can be significantly higher than that
to imprison them. Further evidence suggests that selective co-optation is ineffective in preventing
protests because the unequal distribution of benefits among citizens intensifies contention and cat-
alyzes collective action (Pan 2015).6 More importantly, selective co-optation incurs a commitment
problem that undermines the effectiveness of this strategy: dictators can renege on the promised
rewards once the mobilization threat is gone, and co-opted opponents may also renege by mobiliz-
ing later, ignoring the reward they received (Stokes 2005). This commitment problem intensifies if
radicals have strong anti-regime sentiment and thus are likely to renege on their promises.7 Thus,
to deal with radicals, dictators prefer employing targeted repression to targeted co-optation.
       This discussion underscores an important scope condition for my theory: recent stable, non-
rentier dictatorships where the governments attempt to deter mass mobilization. Given that most
dictatorships, most of the time, are relatively stable,8 my theory has general implications for mod-
   6
     Targeted co-optation can be as or more effective than repression when it has a positive spillover effect on insur-
gents’ social network (Siegel 2011a), but this evidence suggests the spillover effect could be negative.
   7
     Non-exclusive co-optation is less prone to the commitment problems since it can still buy off honest moderates.
   8
     Military juntas are less stable but they are increasingly rare in the past thirty years (Geddes, Wright and Frantz


                                                          7
ern dictatorships.
    As non-exclusive co-optation and targeted repression become common practices in recent sta-
ble dictatorships, dictators face a tradeoff between these two strategies for everyday social control.
Ideally, dictators prefer targeted repression to forestall citizen mobilization by identifying radical
opponents and then stopping them through harassment, intimidation, or detention (Truex 2019).
However, dictators face a vertical information problem that citizens tend to hide their true anti-
regime preferences when they feel threatened by the prospect of state repression (Kuran 1991).
Due to this information problem, dictators cannot accurately target radicals. Non-exclusive co-
optation is most useful when the regime has sufficient geographic, occupational, or racial/ethnic
information about a large group of potential opponents to offer public or club goods but does not
have accurate individual-level information to distinguish radical from moderate opponents. Be-
cause buying support from a moderate is cheaper than buying support from a radical, and public
goods are non-exclusive regardless of the number of recipients, the regime gains support from a
large number of moderates. Although this strategy does not win over radicals, whose price of
support is higher than that for moderates, if protests require coordination between radicals and
moderates, non-exclusive co-optation deters moderates from participating, thereby reducing the
likelihood of protest mobilization.
    Although moderates typically outnumber radicals, the latter remains the primary threat to social
order because radicals are more likely to organize a protest, and a protest is more likely to succeed
when radicals participate (Oliver and Marwell 1988). Because successful anti-regime protests
require coordination between moderates and (particularly) radicals, dictators selectively repress
radicals to prevent coordinated protests rather than providing universal welfare to all opponents
when the regime has accurate individual-level information about citizens’ types. Thus, when the
probability of finding radicals is low, dictators prefer co-optation to repression. In contrast, when
the likelihood of finding radicals is sufficiently high, dictators opt for selective repression over
non-exclusive co-optation.
2018).



                                                  8
2.2 Digital surveillance, co-optation, and repression

       In the past two decades, the development of the Internet and the spread of social media have al-
tered the way of communication, which provides authoritarian governments with new opportunities
for surveillance. Citizens transmit information in electronic forms through an Internet infrastruc-
ture that can be controlled or interrupted by the government. Digital surveillance technologies,
such as spying malware and automated mass-detection systems, are widely used in authoritarian
countries (Gohdes 2014). In addition, recent advances in automated text analysis, machine learn-
ing techniques, and high-powered computing have reduced the costs of identifying critical users
and censoring messages (Edmond 2013). Dictators use these tools to track and analyze online
activities, to gauge public opinion, and to contain threats before they spread (Qin, Strömberg and
Wu 2017). Moreover, street surveillance cameras, combined with facial recognition and big data
technologies, help dictators identify individual radical opponents and monitor early protests (Liu
and Wang 2017). Thus, when information through digital surveillance increases dictators’ proba-
bility of detecting radical opponents, dictators will substitute targeted repression for co-optation to
pre-empt anti-regime mobilization. This logic informs the following expectations:
       Repression hypothesis: Government digital surveillance increases targeted, preventive repres-
sion in authoritarian regimes.
       Co-optation hypothesis: Government digital surveillance decreases non-exclusive co-optation
in authoritarian regimes.9


2.3       Discussion

       My theory focuses on the role of information in shaping authoritarian repression and co-
optation. It applies to a majority of today’s stable dictatorships. Even in societies where regime ide-
ology or cultural legacies motivate high-intensity indiscriminate repression (e.g., genocide) against
certain religious or ethnic groups, states still rely on surveillance and targeted repression to achieve
   9
    I examine repression and co-optation separately because they are different outcomes of surveillance. Yet, since
repression and co-optation are correlated due to the tradeoff discussed above, I also use a Seemingly Unrelated Re-
gression approach to fit models of repression and co-optation together to allow for correlated errors.


                                                        9
social control (Blaydes 2018; Dimitrov and Sassoon 2014; Gohdes 2014).
         Preventive repression as a result of increased government surveillance might further deter cit-
izens from revealing true preferences, exacerbating the authoritarian information problem in the
long run. However, if governments employ less visible, low-intensity repression, citizens will be
less likely to hide their regime preferences. Thus, authoritarian governments have an incentive to
make repression less visible to prevent backlash and to create uncertainty about their repression
targets so as not to exacerbate the information problems in the future.10
         Although my theory does not endogenize the adoption of digital surveillance, it is helpful to
think about why digital surveillance arises in the first place. First, dictators may develop digital
surveillance to improve repression efficiency as long as its benefits outweigh costs. For example,
states with high technology capacity (i.e., lower surveillance costs) may be more likely to engage
in digital surveillance. Second, dictators may switch to targeted repression because they cannot
afford non-exclusive co-optation or they need to direct the resources towards more productive
investments. An economic downturn, an interstate war, a growing threat of social uprising, or
emerging sectionalism may force dictators to develop digital surveillance for targeted repression.
Further, dictators may adopt digital surveillance to control hard-to-penetrate populations such as
religious or ethnic groups. Nevertheless, even if digital surveillance is endogenous to repression,
the prediction that digital surveillance increases targeted repression and decreases non-exclusive
co-optation still holds. My empirical strategy addresses endogeneity concerns to identify the causal
effect of digital surveillance on repression and co-optation.


3         Data and Empirical Strategies
         I use a full sample of about three thousand Chinese counties (and districts) to examine how
digital surveillance influences government repression and co-optation. These counties, as analogs
to states in the international system, along with Chinese government’s phase-in digital surveillance
    10
    Although dictators may sometimes make preemptive repression visible to deter potential protesters, there is no
need to publicize all cases since acknowledging that many people are protesting against the regime signals regime
vulnerability (Gueorguiev 2017). Instead, dictators can make a few representative cases of repression visible for
deterrence purpose while hiding their surveillance practice from the public.


                                                       10
programs allow me to adopt a difference-in-differences (DiD) design to identify the effects of
digital surveillance on repression and co-optation. Moreover, the large number of counties allows
matching and trajectory balancing methods to handle potential time-varying confounders that could
weaken the DiD estimation.


3.1 Fiscal Arrangements in Chinese Counties

   China is an authoritarian country with a multilevel government incorporating about three thou-
sand counties/districts (for simplicity, hereafter, I use county to indicate both) nested in prefec-
tures/cities (about 335) and provinces/municipalities (31) under the central government. On aver-
age, a county has about 500,000 residents.
   I focus on county governments because they are directly responsible for social welfare provi-
sion and repression at the local level. Similar to leaders in authoritarian countries, county leaders
in China worry about popular uprisings because their career advancements are tied to local stability
(Edin 2003). County leaders, therefore, employ co-optation and repression (e.g., providing social
welfare and arresting dissidents) to prevent protests. Due to fiscal decentralization, county gov-
ernments keep a share of the tax income and allocate their budgets without direct central control
(Jia, Guo and Zhang 2014). Scholars have long attributed China’s economic growth to local gov-
ernments’ fiscal autonomy — see, e.g., Montinola, Qian and Weingast (1995)’s “federalism, China
style” and Oi (1995)’s “entrepreneurial local government”. Further, China’s 1994 tax reform – the
famous “Separating Tax System” — further expanded county governments’ expenditure obliga-
tions, including support for agricultural production, financing compulsory education, provision of
public health services, and management of social security programs (Jia, Guo and Zhang 2014).
In other words, each county has a largely constrained budget (from tax and revenue) to allocate
across different categories. If local officials save money from some redistribution obligations, they
can spend more on other activities that benefit their political careers such as large-scale develop-
ment projects that signal economic and political achievements (Guo 2009). Thus, Chinese county
leaders’ career incentives, fiscal responsibilities, and budget constraints are similar to those of state



                                                   11
leaders in the international system.


3.2 Measures and Data

    I use county-level public security expenditure and the number of political prisoners as two
complementary measures for targeted repression. For investment in non-exclusive co-optation, I
use local welfare and public goods expenditure as well as local public goods provision. The data
are collected from multiple archives kept in Beijing, Hong Kong, and other cities in China.
    Public Security Expenditure Measure
    Local public security expenditure is the total annual spending of local police forces, procu-
ratorates, and courts. This expenditure, therefore, includes spending on the local government
organizations that implement targeted repression: detentions, monitoring, harassments, beatings,
and torture of local activists and dissidents. It does not include the spending of high-intensity
repressive bodies such as the Armed Police Force and the People’s Liberation Army, which the
central government and provincial governments fund. Moreover, foreign observers have long used
local security spending as an indicator for domestic repression in China (e.g., Martina 2014); and
archival evidence suggests that the regime invests in local security spending to maintain everyday
social stability.
    Local public security budgets exclude expenses of the Golden Shield Project, which was mostly
funded by the central government. While local security expenditure may also be used to fight
crime, scholars find that Chinese security agents are better trained and equipped to control protests
than to combat crimes (Scoggins 2018). Thus, the local public security expenditure is a reasonable
proxy for targeted repression. See Online Appendix A.1 for details about this measure.
    Political Prisoners Measure
    While security spending measures investment in repressive capacity, which closely hews to the
theoretical expectations, it does not measure actual repression. Therefore, I use the number of
political prisoners as a complement to the spending measure.
    The political prisoner data draws on information contained in the Congressional-Executive



                                                 12
Commission on China’s Political Prisoner Database (CECC-PPD). The CECC lists individuals
who have been detained or imprisoned in China for non-criminal reasons. Human rights organi-
zations, such as the Human Rights in China, the Network of Chinese Human Rights Defenders,
Human Rights Watch, and Dui Hua Foundation compile lists of the prisoners’ names and dates
of incarceration. Several recent studies employ this political prisoner data to measure preventive
repression (e.g., Truex 2019; Gueorguiev 2017). Data on detentions are available starting in 1981
but poor data quality during the early years, when entries were recorded retrospectively, makes
them unsuitable for analysis. In addition, I use the second-phase Golden Shield Project to exam-
ine this prisoner data. Considering that the first-phase Golden Shield project (completed in 2005)
could contaminate the effect of the second-phase project, I then exclude all entries prior to 2006.
After excluding entries with missing information, 4,531 (out of 5,007) detentions remain between
2006 and 2017. Among them, 82 percent of arrests were related to political crimes such as associ-
ation, speech, and the spread of information – precisely the types of actions that facilitate protest
coordination. Unlike combating crime that is loosely organized, controlling social unrest is well-
disciplined in China with specific government protocols (Scoggins 2018), which makes prisoner
data a comparable measure of targeted repression across different localities.
       I generate a measure of local repression by aggregating every prisoner’s time and location of
detention (complemented by location of residence) in each county-year unit. This yields a 12-
year panel for about 2,860 county-level units between 2006 and 2017. On average, each county
arrested about 1.52 activists during the time period (the maximum is 256 and the minimum is 0).11
See Online Appendix A.2 for details about this measure.
       Discussion of Repression Measures
       Both measures of targeted repression have their drawbacks: security spending includes all
expenses of local security bodies; the prisoner data has missingness. Nevertheless, using both
measures together mitigates the drawbacks of each. Moreover, while the prisoner data may have
reporting biases because some regions are more heavily repressed traditionally, the difference-in-
  11
       I address the concern of under-reporting in Online Appendix B.6.



                                                          13
differences design exploits temporal variation within counties rather than cross-sectional variation,
mitigating bias from spatial missingness.
       Co-optation Measures
       I use local welfare expenditure – the total expense of subsistence allowances, pension, endow-
ment, medical and unemployment insurance policies – as a measure of investment in co-optation.
This measure is a reasonable proxy for co-optation because scholars find that welfare policies in
authoritarian countries effectively co-opt groups of people who pose a high risk to regime sta-
bility (Knutsen and Rasmussen 2018). I also use the expenditures and quantities of local public
goods, such as the numbers of welfare centers and beds and the numbers of students in elementary
and middle schools, as measures of co-optation. Note that I include agriculture production as a
proxy for government spending on agriculture because this spending is one of local government
obligations. These measures of local public goods therefore capture the non-exclusive nature of
co-optation.
       Data Sources
       I construct two datasets for these measures. First, I compile an original panel of county-level
annual fiscal data using multiple sources. The 1994 - 2007 county-level public security, wel-
fare, education, and agriculture expenditures come from the Fiscal Statistical Yearbook of Chi-
nese Cities and Counties from 1995 to 2008.12 Data on other covariates such as population and
GDP comes partly from the China County Socio-Economic Statistical Yearbook. The final dataset
contains about 2,860 counties between 1994 and 2007, roughly 36,180 observations. Second, I
matched the 2006-2017 county-level political prisoner data with the social economic and public
goods data from the China County Socio-Economic Statistical Yearbooks.13 Summary statistics of
these two datasets are reported in Online Appendix A.3.
  12
    The national fiscal yearbooks are only available by 2008 with data by 2007.
  13
    The socio-economic yearbooks contain no data for city districts – same administrative-level units as counties. I
address this missing data problem in Online Appendix B.2.




                                                        14
3.3 The Golden Shield Project

       My main empirical strategies rely on difference-in-differences comparisons that exploit local
temporal variation in the implementations of a surveillance system — the Golden Shield Project
(GSP). In 1998, the Ministry of Public Security initiated the GSP, a domestic surveillance and filter-
ing system that integrates on online government databases with an all-encompassing surveillance
network (Walton 2001). This project was constructed through several phases.
       The first phase of the project, completed in 2005, mainly built population databases, ID track-
ing systems, and Internet surveillance tools. A local GSP platform includes a local population
database that records residents’ photo, ID number, address, household composition, and other basic
information; further, it connects to a network of population databases nationwide. This local-level
database also communicates with a database for high-priority monitoring and control (Õπ°ß
∫„) that records residents who potentially threaten social and regime stability. Based on these
two population databases, the platform further integrates several surveillance programs or tools. In
addition, the system has ID scanning and tracking terminals installed in hotels, Internet cafes, train
stations, bus terminals, airports, and train and air ticket offices. These tracking systems allow local
police to track local and migrant populations, especially the population for high-priority monitor-
ing and control. For example, once a blacklisted petitioner books a bus, train, or flight ticket to the
province capital or Beijing, the system automatically notifies the local police bureau, and then the
bureau will send officers to stop the petitioner.14
       Moreover, the local GSP platform incorporates Internet surveillance modules that monitor im-
portant websites, online forums, and social media. Based on keywords searching software, these
modules automatically discover and record public sentiments, and then report signs of social insta-
bility to local police (Du 2013). There are also Internet control modules that can conduct remote
attacks (e.g., denial-of-service attacks) to disrupt websites, fabricate posts in threads, and guide
online discussions (Du 2013). Combining IP address tracking with population databases enables
the police to identify individuals who post sensitive information and track their location.
  14
       An interview with a sub-district office director in Sichuan Province in June, 2015.


                                                            15
       In the late 2000s, the Ministry of Public Security started the second phase of the GSP by
integrating street surveillance cameras into the system. The ministry initiated a series of projects,
including the Plan “3111” initiative.15 With recently developed artificial intelligence and facial
recognition technologies, the surveillance camera system identifies individuals in real time (Liu
and Wang 2017).
       Abundant anecdotal evidence suggests that the GSP facilitates preventive repression. For ex-
ample, two famous lawsuits filed by Chinese political prisoners against Cisco reveals that the GSP,
equipped with Cisco networking hardware, can detect, identify and track political dissidents, who
were later imprisoned by police (Moses 2011). There are also many individuals monitored and
detained for their online political writings.16

3.4 Empirical Specifications

       Based on the local implementation of the GSP, I employ two main estimation strategies to
analyze the effect of digital surveillance on local repression: a difference-in-differences (DiD)
approach that compares differential changes in repression before and after the completion of this
project, and a lagged dependent variable estimation that addresses endogeneity concerns that arise
if past repression influences the timing of implementation of local GSPs in different cross-section
units. Because different datasets cover different time ranges, I use the implementations of the first-
phase GSP (2005) as an identification strategy for the expenditure dataset and the second phase (
“3111” initiative, three waves) for the prisoner dataset.
       I also use the same DiD specifications to estimate the effect of digital surveillance on govern-
ment co-optation. Because measures of co-optation and repression are different budget expendi-
tures, which are correlated with each other given local government budget constraints, I also use
Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) models to fit specifications with different budget expendi-
tures together that allows errors to be correlated across equations.
       Difference-in-Differences Design
  15
    Other projects include the “Safe Cities” project, the “Skynet” project, and the Rural “Sharp Eyes” project.
  16
    See China’s Political Prisoner Database by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China at https://www.
cecc.gov/resources/political-prisoner-database. Accessed November 5, 2017.


                                                      16
       I first use a difference-in-differences approach that compares changes in outcome Yit in places
with and without completed Golden Shield systems:


                                                                              0
                           Yit = ↵1 + ⇢1 Dit + ⌧1 timet +          i+    t + Xit      1 + ✏it ;                      (1)


where Yit can be county i’s repression or co-optation at year t;              i and     t are county and year fixed-

effect dummies; Xit0 is a set of time-varying county-level controls, and ✏it the error term. timet is
a dummy variable indicating the period that the local GSP system has been completed. Dit is an
indicator variable that is one if county i has a completed system at year t and zero otherwise. I am
interested in estimating ⇢1 , the DiD estimate.17
       This DiD model estimates the over-time changes in “control” and “treatment” groups and then
takes the difference of the two over-time differences. With exogenous controls Xit , the key identifi-
cation assumption is E(✏it | i ,      t , Dit ) = 0. That is, a county with a completed GSP system should

have to maintain the same difference to a county without a completed system had the former not
completed the system. In other words, there are underline parallel trends on the outcomes between
the two groups.
       Note that I define treatment and time differently for the two datasets because they span different
phases of the Golden Shield project as the following:
       Golden Shield First Phase:              The expenditure dataset covers a period between 1994 and
2007. I use the first phase of the GSP as an identification strategy. The GSP was initialized
in 1998 and began operation in 2003. The first phase of this project, including the population
databases and most of the ID tracking systems, was completed in 2005.18 Some counties were
even equipped with an Internet surveillance system by 2005. In 2006, the central Ministry of Public
Security awarded about 40 prefectural-level Bureaus of Public Security for their excellent work in
completing the first phase of this project, which suggests that these 40 prefectures have finished
  17
      I use cluster-bootstrap variance matrix developed by Bertrand, Duflo and Mullainathan (2004) to adjust for serially
correlated standard errors.
   18
      China.com, 2003, The Golden Shield Project, http://www.china.com.cn/chinese/zhuanti/283732.htm. Accessed
July 4, 2019.



                                                          17
the 1st-phase surveillance systems by 2005 while other 280 prefectures did so only after 2005. The
DiD estimator for this dataset exploits this temporal variation: timet is a dummy variable that is
equal to one after 2005, and Dit is an indicator variable that is equal to one if county i is located in
a prefecture that has completed GS after 2005 and zero otherwise.
       Golden Shield Second Phase – the “3111” Initiative:                          The political prisoner dataset
covers a period between 2006 and 2017. I use the second phase of the GSP — the City Alarm
and Surveillance Camera Pilot Project (“3111” Initiative) — as an identification strategy. Since
2006, the Ministry of Public Security and provincial governments jointly conducted three waves
of the “3111” Initiative (Ding 2010). The first wave included four cities (consisting of about 50
county-level administrations), where the systems took effect in 2008. The second wave included 22
cities (consisting of about 130 counties/districts), with the systems completed in 2010. During the
last wave, another 470 counties/districts piloted “3111” projects, with completion in 2012 (Li and
Hikvision Digital Technology Co. 2015). A total of 660 pilot counties/districts were selected with
a relatively even distribution within 31 provinces to demonstrate the surveillance camera systems
to all other counties in China. Thus, local security concerns were not a major reason for selecting
these counties, which mitigates the endogeneity problem. I also find that past political arrests are
not correlated with pilot county selection. The phase-in nature of the “3111” Initiative permits a
staggered DiD design with multiple time periods and multiple groups — a stronger identification
strategy than a single treatment period DiD. For the political prisoner dataset, Dit is an indicator
variable that is equal to one if county i is a “3111” pilot county after the time of completion and
zero otherwise.19
       Lagged Outcome Variable Design
       The causal identification of the DiD method assumes time-invariant confounders that can be
captured by the fixed effects. However, it is possible that repression and surveillance are endoge-
nous. For example, local pressure for repression may directly affect the implementations of local
GS systems or the self-selections of the “3111” pilot counties. It is also possible that counties
  19
       See Online Appendix A.4 for details about the “3111” Initiative as well as how those pilot counties were selected.



                                                            18
spend more money on repression tend to spend more on surveillance. To address this endogeneity
problem, I use a lagged outcome model to account for pressure for repression or other omitted
variables that lead to repression (Angrist and Pischke 2008):


                                                         0
                   Yit = ↵2 + ⇢2 Dit + ⇡2 Yit 1 +   t + Xit   2 + ✏it ,   t = 1, ...T ;          (2)


where Yit 1 refers to one-year lagged outcome variable (i.e., repression). For different datasets,
the variable Dit indicates different counties in different time periods as mentioned above.
   DiD, Lags, and Trajectory Balancing
   While both DiD and Lagged Outcome models are solutions of causal inference, each requires
relatively strong assumptions for identification that are often hard to justify. Fortunately, Angrist
and Pischke (2008) point out an interesting bounding property of these two approaches. They
prove that if the DiD model is correct but the analyst uses a Lagged Outcome model, this will
generate a correlation between the treatment and the lagged outcome which will bias the treatment
effect downward. Conversely, if the Lagged Outcome model generates the data whereas the analyst
estimates a DiD model, the estimated treatment effect will be too large since the unestimated lag
parameter will be additive with the treatment effect through the error term. Therefore, we can view
the estimates from a DiD model and a Lagged Outcome model as the upper bound and the lower
bound for the causal effect of interest.
   Another way to address the endogeneity problem is a recently developed trajectory balancing
approach, which uses kernel balancing to weight control observations to match the treated observa-
tions according to the pretreatment trends (i.e., high-order “trajectory”) of outcome and covariates
(Hazlett and Xu 2018). This approach handles time-vary confounders by assuming some time-
fixed linear combination of the time-varying confounders. Because pretreatment outcomes contain
information on those confounders, balancing control observations with the treated on pretreatment
outcomes differences out the time-varying confounders.




                                                 19
4    Results
    In this section, I first present the results of surveillance on repression using those two repression
measures. I then show that repression substitutes for co-optation after surveillance implementation.


4.1 Golden Shield and Local Public Security Expenditure

    My argument posits that digital surveillance increases preventive repression. Figure 1 provides
initial evidence from security spending data. The plot in the left panel shows that since 2006,
the year that the GSP’s first phase was completed, counties in prefectures with completed surveil-
lance systems increase local public security expenditure more so than counties without completed
surveillance systems, especially in 2007. The trends between the two groups are relatively parallel.
To mitigate time-varying omitted variable biases, I further use the trajectory balancing approach
to weight the control group. As shown in the right panel, the weighted control group – counties
without completed surveillance systems – have almost the same pretreatment trend as that of the
treated group, and the treated group has a larger increase in security expenditure since 2006.




               Unweighted Trends                        Trends with TjBal Weighted Control Group

            Figure 1: Trends in Security Expenditure, 1st-Phase Golden Shield Project


    Table 1 presents the estimated results using the unweighted data. Column (1) reports the DiD
estimate (GS Completed County), controlling for local total fiscal expenditure, population, and


                                                   20
urbanization. Because the first-phase GS systems are completed at the prefecture level, I cluster
standard errors by prefectures. The estimated effect is positive, large, and statistically significant,
indicating that county governments in prefectures with completed GS systems spent 11.6 percent
more on public security than counties in prefectures with uncompleted GS systems after 2005.

               Table 1: 1st-Phase Golden Shield Project and Public Security Expenditure
                           Fixed Eff.   Lagged DV      Fixed Eff.   Lagged DV     Fixed Eff.   Lagged DV
                              (1)          (2)            (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)
    VARIABLES               Security     Security      Security     Security      Security     Security
                             (log)        (log)         (log)        (log)         (log)        (log)


    Golden Shield⇥Time      0.116***     0.0363**     0.0995***      0.0297**     0.128***      0.0338**
                            (0.0287)     (0.0141)      (0.0303)      (0.0122)     (0.0369)      (0.0139)
    Time: Post-2005         0.784***                  0.0387***                   0.552***
                            (0.0833)                   (0.0128)                    (0.102)
    Lagged DV                             0.754***                   0.773***                    0.755***
                                          (0.0118)                    (0.0126)                   (0.0138)
    Expenditure(log)        0.638***      0.263***     0.570***      0.237***     0.531***       0.223***
                            (0.0360)      (0.0132)      (0.0492)      (0.0146)    (0.0315)       (0.0145)
    Population(Log)          0.0431      -0.00982*       0.0445     -0.0153***     0.0450        -0.00173
                            (0.0290)     (0.00536)      (0.0401)     (0.00550)    (0.0298)      (0.00587)
    Urb. Ratio              -0.00628     0.0460***     -0.00247     0.0411***     -0.00100      0.0619***
                            (0.0130)     (0.00996)      (0.0163)     (0.00974)    (0.0132)       (0.0118)
    GDP (log)                                           0.00205     0.0112***
                                                       (0.00588)     (0.00373)
    Admin. Exp. (log)                                                             0.149***      0.0465**
                                                                                  (0.0531)      (0.0215)
    County FEs                 Yes          No             Yes          No           Yes           No
    Year FEs                   Yes          Yes            Yes          Yes          Yes           Yes

    Constant                  0.121      -0.590***     1.363***     -0.741***     0.000178      -0.771***
                             (0.310)      (0.0751)      (0.488)      (0.0785)      (0.407)        (0.103)

    Observations             34,757       31,632        25,340        24,827       27,329         24,489
    R-squared                 0.889        0.953         0.826        0.948         0.858          0.948
    N of County               2,745                      2,731                      2,742
    Robust standard errors clustered by prefectures. The number of observations are different between fixed
    effects models and lagged DV models because the lags automatically drop observations in the first year.
    Table B.4 shows that the results remain similar and robust when matching the sample of the fixed effects
    models with that of the lagged DV models.
    *** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1


   Columns (2) reports the results of the lagged DV model using the unweighted data; the estimate
suggests the lower bound for the causal effect. The coefficient for GS Completed County remains
positive and statistically significant: county governments in surveillance prefectures spent roughly

                                                      21
3.6 percent more on public security since 2005. Columns (3) - (6) show that the results are stable
when including additional controls such as GDP and administrative expenditure.20 In addition, the
result from weighted data using Trajectory Balancing approach indicates a 6.9 percent increase
in security expenditure after surveillance.21 Together, these results suggest that the GSP has a
large, positive effect on local repression. Given that China’s internal security spending was larger
than the army’s budget in 2011, an 4 - 12 percent increase in security spending is substantial. I
also conduct a DiD falsification test based on the weighted data and find no pre-trend difference
(Online Appendix B.5).


4.2 “3111” Initiative and Political Prisoners

       Figure 2 plots the number of political prisoners between the last wave of the “3111” counties
and the never-treated counties before and after 2012. Pilot counties with completed surveillance
camera systems have a sharper increase in the number of prisoners than non-pilot counties. Figure
2 also shows that the pre-surveillance trends between these two groups of counties are almost
identical, which gives us more confidence to interpret DiD results as causal because it suggests
common underlying trends between these two groups in the absence of the “3111” Initiative.
       Column (1) in Table 2 reports the DiD estimates from Equation (1), with standard errors clus-
tered on counties because the “3111” Initiative use counties as pilot project units.22 The result
indicates that pilot counties with advanced surveillance camera systems arrest 0.1 more political
activists than non-pilot counties. Given that the average number of prisoners per county-year is
0.13, political prisoners almost double in surveillance pilot counties relative to non-pilot counties.
Columns (2) reports the lagged DV model estimate from Equation (2). The result is also substan-
tial and statistically significant. A DiD falsification test finds no pre-trend difference between these
two groups (Online Appendix B.5).23
  20
     The main models (Column [1] and [2]) do not include these two controls because the GDP variable misses all
counties/cities in 1994, 1995, 1996, and 2007, and the administrative expenditure variable misses all counties/cities in
2004 and 2005.
  21
     Online Appendix B.4 presents detailed results from the Trajectory Balancing approach.
  22
     The results are robust to clustering on prefectures.
  23
     The models do not include social-economic controls because city districts’(more than one-third of county-level
units) controls are missing. Nevertheless, the results are robust with controls based on a subsample excluding city dis-


                                                          22
                  Figure 2: Trends in Political Prisoners, 3rd-Wave “3111” Initiative

                  Table 2: “3111” Initiative (2nd-Phase GSP) and Political Prisoners
                                               All Provinces             Tibet, Xinjiang &
                                                                         Beijing Excluded
                                          Fixed Eff.   Lagged DV      Fixed Eff. Lagged DV
                                             (1)           (2)           (3)           (4)
                    VARIABLES             Prisoners     Prisoners     Prisoners     Prisoners

                    “3111” County         0.0949***     0.0844***     0.109***     0.0422***
                                           (0.0283)      (0.0215)     (0.0247)      (0.0143)
                    Lagged Prisoners                     0.157***                   0.142***
                                                         (0.0114)                   (0.0104)
                    County FEs               Yes            No           Yes           No
                    Year FEs                 Yes            Yes          Yes           Yes

                    Constant              0.0381***     0.0647***    0.0347***     0.0648***
                                          (0.00715)      (0.0100)    (0.00694)      (0.0105)

                    Observations           34,328        31,460        32,033        29,359
                    R-squared               0.002        0.025          0.002        0.021
                    Number of County        2,868                       2,674
                    Robust standard errors clustered by counties. The results remain similar
                    and robust when matching the sample of fixed effects models with that of
                    lagged DV models.
                    *** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1


tricts (Online Appendix B.2). In addition, I use Fixed-Effects Negative Binomial models, Negative Binomial models,
and Zero-inflated Negative Binomial models to address the discrete and non-negative values of the prisoner variable.
The results remain robust to all model specifications. See Online Appendix B.2 for details.



                                                        23
       The Tibet and Xinjiang autonomous regions rely more heavily on repression than other provinces
due to ethnic tensions and secession. In addition, petitioners and protesters are more likely to gather
in Beijing, China’s political center, and therefore preventive repression is more intensive there. It
is possible that the positive results are driven by outlier counties in Beijing, Tibet, and Xinjiang.
The prisoner data also shows that governments in these three regions arrest disproportionally more
activists than governments in other areas. To address this concern, I replicate the analyses using
a subsample that excludes counties from those three provinces. As shown in Column (3) and (4),
the results remain large and statistically significant.
       Note that the average numbers of political prisoners in “3111” pilot and non-pilot counties
converge in 2017, possibly suggesting that local governments may have arrested most dissidents
so that extensive imprisonment is no longer necessary. It is also possible that citizens have learned
to hide from government surveillance. Unfortunately, the data does not allow me to test these
possibilities. Nevertheless, the evidence suggests that digital surveillance is effective for at least
four years.

4.3 Surveillance and the Repression-cooptation trade-off

       Scholars argue that Internet and social media surveillance enables authoritarian governments
to collect accurate information on mass opinion and to tailor policies accordingly (Gunitsky 2015).
While the Chinese government may use the information to adjust policy, this practice does not
preclude the government from employing surveillance to identify political opponents. If, however,
surveillance is primarily a tool to inform policy, we could expect surveillance to increase welfare
spending in areas of potential unrest. In contrast, my theory suggests that surveillance for iden-
tifying individual opponents should result in more repression and less redistribution because the
former is a more cost-efficient way to maintain social stability.
       To test this trade-off, I examine how surveillance influences redistribution and security expen-
ditures together using Seemingly Unrelated Regression models with a DiD setup. I use levels
of expenditure rather than log scales to compare spending in different categories.24 Table 3 shows
  24
       See Table B.5 in Online Appendix B.1 for estimation in log scales.


                                                           24
large, negative, and statistically significant effects of surveillance on welfare and agriculture spend-
ing. Further, I examine how the “3111” Initiative influences local public goods provision. Table 4
shows that most of the effects are negative and the effects on the number of beds in hospitals and
agriculture products are large, negative, and statistically significant (2.4 - 12 percentage decreases).
Overall, these results suggest that surveillance decreases non-exclusive co-optation. Note that the
negative effects do not mean an absolute reduction in public goods and welfare provision. Instead,
these DiD estimates indicate that welfare spending and public goods have smaller increases in
surveillance counties than in non-surveillance counties.
             Table 3: 1st-Phase GSP, Public Security, and Redistribution Expenditures

                                            (1)                 (2)            (3)               (4)
     VARIABLES                            Security            Welfare       Education        Agriculture
                                       (10,000 CNY)        (10,000 CNY)   (10,000 CNY)     (10,000 CNY)

     Golden Shield⇥Time                    2,880***         -3,075***         -432.5          -993.2**
                                            (679.5)           (1,171)         (1,191)          (430.7)
     Time: Post-2005                      -1,195***           1,266**        1,816***         1,356***
                                            (301.9)           (520.1)         (528.9)          (191.3)
     Total Expenditure (10,000 CNY)      0.0731***          0.0379***        0.131***       0.0292***
                                         (0.000229)         (0.000394)     (0.000401)       (0.000145)
     Population (10,000 Person)           -1.377***          3.608***        32.77***         0.817***
                                            (0.223)           (0.383)         (0.390)          (0.141)
     Urbanization Ratio (0-1)                345.8            992.5**       -3,131***        -1,089***
                                            (279.1)           (480.9)         (489.1)          (176.9)
     County FEs                               Yes               Yes             Yes              Yes
     Year FEs                                 Yes               Yes             Yes              Yes

     Constant                              -379.2*            115.8         3,416***         1,345***
                                           (214.2)           (369.1)         (375.3)          (135.8)

     Observations                          19,755             19,755         19,755           19,755
     R-squared                              0.923              0.567          0.950            0.839
     Seemingly unrelated regressions with two-way fixed effects. Robust standard errors clustered by pre-
     fectures.
     *** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1



4.4 Alternative Mechanisms

   One concern is that digital surveillance lowers the thresholds of what dictators perceive to be
radical opponents to include individuals’ browsing preferences. This means increased repression
might result from “redefining” radicals instead of detecting radicals. However, information on

                                                      25
                Table 4: “3111” Initiative (2nd-Phase GSP) and Public Goods Provision
                                   Welfare                         Education                     Agriculture
                         (1)         (2)         (3)             (4)         (5)        (6)          (7)           (8)
 VARIABLES            Welfare     Welfare     Hospital        Primary     Middle     Grain        Cotton       Oil Crop
                      Centers      Beds        Beds            Stdts      Stdts      Prodct       Prodct        Prodct
                       (log)       (log)       (log)           (log)       (log)      (log)        (log)         (log)

 “3111” County        0.00614     -0.00352    -0.0243**        0.00643     0.00143   -0.047***     -0.121*     -0.108***
                      (0.0241)    (0.0326)     (0.0121)       (0.00935)   (0.0124)    (0.0111)    (0.0716)      (0.0263)
 Land Area(Log)        -0.0625     0.00403      0.0244        0.0589**      0.0317      0.0745      0.276        0.0632
                      (0.0806)    (0.0641)     (0.0225)        (0.0266)   (0.0307)    (0.0514)     (0.183)      (0.0910)
 Population(Log)        0.140*     0.312**    0.309***        0.447***    0.503***     0.124**     0.349*       0.599***
                      (0.0760)     (0.125)     (0.0718)        (0.0813)   (0.0892)    (0.0526)     (0.211)       (0.150)
 1st Industry(Log)      0.0405     0.117**     -0.0129         -0.09***    -0.0130    0.319***     0.266**      0.253***
                      (0.0420)    (0.0541)     (0.0195)        (0.0210)   (0.0220)    (0.0516)     (0.113)      (0.0685)
 2nd Industry(Log)    0.0652**    0.0722**    0.036***        -0.041***     0.0137      0.0152    0.226***      0.128***
                      (0.0265)    (0.0322)     (0.0102)       (0.00878)   (0.0150)    (0.0103)    (0.0687)      (0.0290)
 Fiscal Bgt.(Log)       0.0355    0.114***    0.055***        0.026***    0.089***    -0.00566     0.0586       0.134***
                      (0.0273)    (0.0383)     (0.0143)        (0.0101)   (0.0153)    (0.0123)    (0.0906)      (0.0328)
 County FEs               Yes        Yes          Yes             Yes         Yes         Yes        Yes           Yes
 Year FEs                 Yes        Yes          Yes             Yes         Yes         Yes        Yes           Yes

 Constant               0.649       1.129     4.284***        9.376***    6.923***   7.113***     -3.407*       -0.0467
                       (0.912)     (1.064)     (0.378)         (0.400)     (0.426)    (0.632)     (1.937)       (0.998)

 Observations          19,474      19,447      20,065          20,107      20,099     18,361       8,542        19,275
 R-squared              0.018       0.351       0.613           0.234       0.258      0.118       0.104         0.045
 N of County            2,081       2,081       2,086           2,086       2,086      2,066       1,093         2,041
 Two-way fixed effects models. Robust standard errors clustered by counties.
 *** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1


the prisoners arrested for their online activities in the CECC-PPD database suggests that most of
them used the Internet as a platform for anti-regime mobilization, indicating they are likely radical
regime opponents. I further exclude all internet-related arrests (about 10.6%) from the sample.
The results remain large and statistically significant at 0.01 level (See Online Appendix B.6 for
details).
    If surveillance allows the government to more efficiently govern by improving redistribution
accuracy and monitoring local officials, then increased surveillance should mean a fixed amount of
government spending on local public goods will yield more gains in citizen welfare and more gains
in social stability. Thus, while surveillance may allow the government to substitute repression for
(costly) local public goods provision, a decline in spending on public goods provision could simply



                                                         26
be the result of more efficient governance brought about by increased surveillance. However, we
can rule out this mechanism for several reasons. First, my empirical strategy is based on the Golden
Shield project that is designed for police departments to monitor citizens. It is unlikely that this
surveillance system improves government efficiency in delivering public goods. Second, the 3111
Initiative (the 2nd phase of the GSP) is designed to install street camera systems in cities. It is
unlikely that city camera systems improve redistribution accuracy in rural areas, and thus influence
agricultural production (Table 4, Column [6], [7], and [8]).
    A reduction in welfare spending after surveillance might also result from local government
budget constraints: they spend more money on repression with less left for redistribution. However,
if this were the case, we would observe an accounting balance between increases in repression
spending and decreases in co-optation. As shown in Table 3, the reduced co-optation spending is
about 60 percent larger than the increased security spending, suggesting that the tradeoff between
repression and co-optation is unlikely to stem from local governments’ accounting balance. A final
concern is that increased surveillance might better inform a government strategy of individual-
level targeted benefits, which might influence welfare expenditure. Though I cannot rule out this
possibility, the increased political arrests with surveillance suggest that governments use more
targeted repression.


5    Conclusion
    Today, roughly half of the world’s population lives under some form of non-democratic govern-
ment. Although social scientists, policymakers, and human rights advocates celebrated the dawn
of the Internet Era in the hopes that better communication technology would become a power-
ful tool to ensure and encourage freedom and democracy (Diamond 2010), we have not observed
widespread authoritarian collapse in the two decades since the advent of this era. In this paper, I
argue that digital surveillance empowers dictators by resolving their information problem in iden-
tifying radical opponents and enabling them to substitute preventive repression for co-optation to
prevent social unrest. The evidence from analyzing the effects of the Golden Shield Project on


                                                27
Chinese subnational governments’ repression and co-optation is consistent with this theory.
    The findings of this paper are based on the practices of surveillance and repression conducted
by the police in a non-electoral dictatorship, but the theory developed here is generalizable to other
types of surveillance and repression as well as to electoral autocracies. For example, in 2004, the
Hugo Chávez regime in Venezuela was able to identify several million voters who had attempted
to remove him from office. The regime then used a user-friendly software program known as
Maisanta to distribute the list throughout the government bureaucracy for punishment. Scholars
find that voters who were identified as Chávez opponents experienced a 5 percent drop in earnings
and a 1.3 percentage point drop in employment rates after the voter list was released (Hsieh et al.
2011). This case suggests that dictators have many ways to surveil and repress opponents, and
surveillance can be effective when it is used to collect individual-level information on citizens’
political preferences during elections.
    The theory and findings in this paper have several implications for explaining authoritarian
survival in the digital age. First, digital surveillance helps dictators repress radical opponents
to forestall large-scale social protests that might threaten their survival. Second, contemporary
dictatorships seldom employ large-scale in-person surveillance (e.g., Stasi in East Germany) to
control society due to its detrimental effects on social trust and economic growth (Blaydes 2018) as
well as the costs and risks of creating and managing a large bureaucracy comprised of human agents
who may threaten the dictator’s survival. Digital surveillance relies less on human agents and
can more easily be disguised. The reduced social and political costs facilitate using surveillance
to control society in dictatorships.25 Moreover, surveillance enables dictators to use preventive
repression to address threats before overt mass protests mobilize, which reduces the necessity to
engage in reactive, often more violent, state-led repression. As a consequence, surveillance likely
reduces dictators’ reliance on military or paramilitary forces for retaining power and therefore
lowers the risk of military takeover. Future research in these directions is worth exploration.


  25
     Digital surveillance is quicker and more comprehensive than human-agent based surveillance, and thus may be
more accurate if human agents are subjective or even malicious against “innocent” people.


                                                      28
References
Angrist, Joshua D. and Jörn-Steffen Pischke. 2008. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiri-
  cist’s Companion. Princeton University Press.
Bertrand, Marianne, Esther Duflo and Sendhil Mullainathan. 2004. “How Much Should We Trust
  Differences-in-differences Estimates?” The Quarterly Journal of Economics 119(1):249–275.
Blaydes, Lisa. 2018. State of Repression: Iraq Under Saddam Hussein. Princeton University
  Press.
Davenport, Christian. 2007. “State Repression and Political Order.” Annual Review of Political
  Science 10:1–23.
De Mesquita, Bruce Bueno, Alastair Smith, Randolph M. Siverson and James D. Morrow. 2003.
  The Logic of Political Survival. MIT Press.
Diamond, Larry JF. 2010. “Liberation Technology.” Journal of Democracy 21(3):69 – 83.
Dimitrov, Martin K. and Joseph Sassoon. 2014. “State Security, Information, and Repression: A
  Comparison of Communist Bulgaria and Ba’thist Iraq.” Journal of Cold War Studies 16(2):3–31.
Ding, Zhaowei. 2010. “The Progress of National-wide “Safe City” Projects in 2010.” China Public
  Security 04.
Du, Xinwei. 2013. Design and Implementation of Taiyuan Comprehensive Information Platform
  for a Bureau of Police (in Chinese). Master’s thesis. University of Electronic Science and Tech-
  nology of China. Available at http://cdmd.cnki.com.cn/Article/CDMD-10614-1013330231.htm.
  Accessed July 4, 2019.
Edin, Maria. 2003. “State Capacity and Local Agent Control in China: CCP Cadre Management
  From a Township Perspective.” The China Quarterly 173:35–52.
Edmond, Chris. 2013. “Information Manipulation, Coordination, and Regime Change.” Review of
  Economic Studies 80(4):1422–1458.
Frantz, Erica and Andrea Kendall-Taylor. 2014. “A Dictator’s Toolkit: Understanding How Co-
  optation Affects Repression in Autocracies.” Journal of Peace Research 51(3):332–346.



                                                29
Gandhi, Jennifer and Adam Przeworski. 2006. “Cooperation, Cooptation, and Rebellion Under
  Dictatorships.” Economics & Politics 18(1):1–26.
Geddes, Barbara, Joseph Wright and Erica Frantz. 2018. How Dictatorships Work: Power, Person-
  alization, and Collapse. Cambridge University Press.
Gellman, Barton and Laura Poitras. 2013. “U.S., British Intelligence Mining Data from Nine U.S.
  Internet Companies in Broad Secret Program.” The Washington Post . July 03.
Gershenson, Dmitriy and Herschel I Grossman. 2001. “Cooption and Repression in the Soviet
  Union.” Economics & Politics 13(1):31–47.
Gohdes, Anita R. 2014. Repression in the Digital Age: Communication Technology and the Poli-
  tics of State Violence. Phd dissertation. Universität Mannheim. Available at: https://ub-madoc.
  bib.uni-mannheim.de/37902/. Accessed July 4, 2019.
Gueorguiev, Dimitar D. 2017. “In Public or in Private: Repressing Dissidents in China.” Working
  Paper. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3038812. Accessed July 4, 2019.
Gunitsky, Seva. 2015. “Corrupting the Cyber-commons: Social Media as a Tool of Autocratic
  Stability.” Perspectives on Politics 13(1):42–54.
Guo, Gang. 2009. “China’s Local Political Budget Cycles.” American Journal of Political Science
  53(3):621–632.
Hazlett, Chad and Yiqing Xu. 2018. “Trajectory Balancing: A General Reweighting Approach to
  Causal Inference with Time-Series Cross-Sectional Data.” Working Paper, UCLA and UCSD.
  Link: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract id=3214231. Accessed July 4, 2019.
Hsieh, Chang-Tai, Edward Miguel, Daniel Ortega and Francisco Rodriguez. 2011. “The Price
  of Political Opposition: Evidence from Venezuela’s Maisanta.” American Economic Journal:
  Applied Economics 3(2):196–214.
Huang, Haifeng, Serra Boranbay-Akan and Ling Huang. 2019. “Media, Protest Diffusion, and
  Authoritarian Resilience.” Political Science Research and Methods 7(1):23–42.
Jia, Junxue, Qingwang Guo and Jing Zhang. 2014. “Fiscal Decentralization and Local Expenditure
  Policy in China.” China Economic Review 28:107–122.


                                                30
King, Gary, Jennifer Pan and Margaret E Roberts. 2013. “How Censorship in China Allows
  Government Criticism but Silences Collective Expression.” American Political Science Review
  107(2):326–343.
King, Gary, Jennifer Pan and Margaret E. Roberts. 2017. “How the Chinese Government Fabri-
  cates Social Media Posts for Strategic Distraction, Not Engaged Argument.” American Political
  Science Review 111(3):484–501.
Kitschelt, Herbert and Steven I Wilkinson. 2007. Patrons, Clients and Policies: Patterns of Demo-
  cratic Accountability and Political Competition. Cambridge University Press.
Knutsen, Carl Henrik and Magnusn Rasmussen. 2018. “The Autocratic Welfare State: Old-
  Age Pensions, Credible Commitments, and Regime Survival.” Comparative Political Studies
  51(5):659–695.
Kuran, Timur. 1991. “Now Out of Never: The Element of Surprise in the East European Revolution
  of 1989.” World Politics 44(1):7–48.
Li, Yanxiang and Ltd. Hikvision Digital Technology Co. 2015. “The History and Prospects of Safe
  City (in Chinese).” China Public Security 09. Available at: http://www.cnki.com.cn/Article/
  CJFDTOTAL-GGAZ201509013.htm. Accessed July 4, 2019.
Liu, Joyce and Xiqing Wang. 2017. “In Your Face: China’s all-seeing state.” BBC News . December
  10.
Lorentzen, Peter L. 2014. “China’s Strategic Censorship.” American Journal of Political Science
  58(2):402–414.
Lust-Okar, Ellen. 2005. Structuring Conflict in the Arab World: Incumbents, Opponents, and
  Institutions. Cambridge University Press.
Lynch, Marc. 2011. “After Egypt: The Limits and Promise of Online Challenges to the Authori-
  tarian Arab State.” Perspectives on Politics 9(2):301–310.
Magaloni, Beatriz. 2006. Voting for Autocracy: Hegemonic Party Survival and Its Demise in
  Mexico. Cambridge University Press.
Martina, Michael. 2014. “China Withholds Full Domestic-security Spending Figure.” Reuters .


                                               31
  March 04.
Miller, Michael K. 2015.    “Elections, Information, and Policy Responsiveness in Autocratic
  Regimes.” Comparative Political Studies 48(6):691–727.
Montinola, Gabriella, Yingyi Qian and Barry R Weingast. 1995. “Federalism, Chinese Style: The
  Political Basis for Economic Success in China.” World Politics 48(1):50–81.
Moses, Asher. 2011. “Fighting China’s Golden Shield: Cisco Sued Over Jailing and Torture of
  Dissidents.” The Sydney Morning Herald . August 16.
Nafziger, E Wayne and Juha Auvinen. 2002. “Economic Development, Inequality, War, and State
  Violence.” World Development 30(2):153–163.
Oi, Jean C. 1995. “The Role of the Local State in China’s Transitional Economy.” The China
  Quarterly 144:1132–1149.
Oliver, Pamela E and Gerald Marwell. 1988. “The Paradox of Group Size in Collective Action: A
  Theory of the Critical Mass. II.” American Sociological Review 53(1):1–8.
O’Donnell, Guillermo, Philippe C Schmitter and Laurence Whitehead. 1986. Transitions from
  Authoritarian Rule: Comparative Perspectives. Vol. 3 JHU Press.
Pan, Jennifer. 2015. Buying Inertia: Preempting Social Disorder with Selective Welfare Provision
  in Urban China. Phd dissertation. Harvard University. Available at: https://dash.harvard.edu/
  handle/1/17467174. Accessed July 4, 2019.
Qin, Bei, David Strömberg and Yanhui Wu. 2017. “Why Does China Allow Freer Social Media?
  Protests Versus Surveillance and Propaganda.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 31(1):117–40.
Ritter, Emily Hencken and Courtenay R. Conrad. 2016. “Preventing and Responding to Dissent:
  The Observational Challenges of Explaining Strategic Repression.” American Political Science
  Review 110(1):85–99.
Scoggins, Suzanne E. 2018. “Policing Modern China.” China Law and Society Review 3(2):79–
  117.
Shapiro, Jacob N and David A Siegel. 2015. “Coordination and Security: How Mobile Communi-
  cations Affect Insurgency.” Journal of Peace Research 52(3):312–322.


                                              32
Siegel, David A. 2011a. “Non-disruptive Tactics of Suppression Are Superior in Countering Ter-
  rorism, Insurgency, and Financial Panics.” PloS One 6(4):e18545.
Siegel, David A. 2011b. “When Does Repression Work? Collective Action in Social Networks.”
  The Journal of Politics 73(4):993–1010.
Stokes, Susan C. 2005. “Perverse Accountability: A Formal Model of Machine Politics With
  Evidence from Argentina.” American Political Science Review 99(3):315–325.
Sullivan, Christopher M. 2016. “Political Repression and the Destruction of Dissident Orga-
  nizations: Evidence from the Archives of the Guatemalan National Police.” World Politics
  68(4):645–676.
Svolik, Milan W. 2012. The Politics of Authoritarian Rule. Cambridge University Press.
Truex, Rory. 2019. “Focal Points, Dissident Calendars, and Preemptive Repression.” Journal of
  Conflict Resolution 63(4):1032–1052.
Valentino-DeVries, Jennifer, Lam Thuy Vo and Danny Yadron. 2015. “Cataloging the World’s
  Cyberforces.” The Wall Street Journal . December 28.
Walton, Greg. 2001. China’s Golden Shield: Corporations and the Development of Surveillance
  Technology in the People’s Republic of China. Rights & Democracy.
Way, Lucan A. and Steven Levitsky. 2006. “The Dynamics of Autocratic Coercion After the Cold
  War.” Communist and Post-Communist Studies 39(3):387–410.
Wintrobe, Ronald. 2000. The Political Economy of Dictatorship. Cambridge University Press.




                                              33
